so I've been dropping some shorts from
the question and answer Friday that I
thought went particularly
well and then I caught because another
person in the corner mentioned this
video how f um this video with uh Chris
from waves of obsession and Neil and
Chad Neil and Chad are doing these
interviews with people it's a long
interview there's a lot of interesting
stuff in it but this part caught my
salience landscaper as the Grim Grizz
says so what did you have in your mind
Chris in regard to REI
and uh mcgilchrist
Gilchrist and uh just thinking about the
two hemispheres and and the
language yeah I
mean um well whatever I'll just you know
tell you everything that I've been kind
of work now I just did the Miley Cyrus
video which I wasn't planning on doing
it just came up and I had the idea and I
was sitting in my office and I had them
ine and so I did it and I thought about
Chris because Chris um also talked about
earlier in this video talked about the
divorce of his parents how many
times does a parents marriage figure
into the story of or
Rando working through so I guess I've
been you know I was going back through
the the archives and sort of noticing
like when did Veri show up on the scene
right you know Veri shows up on kind of
in the lull period of when Peterson
falls out and so here comes here comes
fori and he has this you know he's got
this little box of fancy Veri words
right that's kind of the message right
it's the it's the the it's the the
Tickle Me Elmo of the year right
everybody wants the little box of of
fancy for vakey words
but when you think about one of them
which is the psycho technology
pie that's the one that you know it's
supposed to permanently alter the way
that you
think right and you can't now I just did
the conversation this morning with food
truck Emily and yeah I talked about how
in that video we talked about the psycho
technology of mass worship so she's a
worship leader at a major mega church in
Austin Texas and she's very open so but
but she's on stage and she's on stage a
lot and she leads worship and so it was
really interesting talking to
her and it's this psycho technology was
sort of one of the first things I picked
up from Veri and I Chris can't say it
better do it it's permanent and the
thing he always use I meant to say I
can't say it better than Chris this his
literacy you know that's his that's his
goto lit
it's like you can't you can't think
without thinking in lit like you can't
do it and so what I what I started to
realize is that and and I guess it
happened to me especially of these
phrases it's like relevance realization
in particular it's like it's part of the
way that I think like that little p that
little bundle of fancy or vakey words is
a psycho technology and it permanently
altered the way a group of people think
and I find it very
fascinating for sure and I'm and I'm
kind of wondering like is it a good
thing because I'm thinking about we
probably need some savings throw before
all that um well I I would say yes um
for a couple of reasons one is that
Christ says that there's nothing in the
darkness that will not be brought to the
light
so you could say it's all but
inevitable that let's say everything
that
we everything that we don't have control
over uh within our own lives within our
own selves within our own being is going
to come out uh one way or the other
eventually uh so for those of you who
are only listening to this uh this is
Neil that Chad has been working with a
lot with these conversations and behind
Neil in his home office or wherever he's
got this table set up where he's doing
his recording the wall is plastered with
children's products and he clearly has a
daughter and he has some young children
and you see hands and and I I think the
point that Neil is making here and the
point that overall this video makes is
that number one we are certainly
colonizing each other and um John
verve's language his fancy Veri words
are having a powerful impact now they
don't all have the same powerful impact
some catch some don't that's sort of the
darwinian sifting that goes on
but and I really like how Neil sort of
gets human anthropology right in terms
of this question about
agency talked a little bit about a
conversation between Chris Williamson
and Alex OK Conor about about the Free
Will question and I've never liked the
Free Will question because I I don't
think there's anywhere near as enough
Nuance in that framing of the question I
think Neil really frames it well here
and I I mean that not so much in terms
of our past but in aspects of our
personality it's like if if there's a
gun on the Shelf at the First Act of the
play that gun is going to be used at
some point in the
play um
so when you're talking about not being
able to take away from yourself those
parts of yourself
that that you've Incorporated because of
those words because of those
conversations because of those things
um it's an inevitable part of our
journey whether we like it or not
and we do have some control over the
ship we do have some but in general the
ship in the tide in the wind it's not in
our control it's the rider you know
rider in the elephant thing
and the question always is you know we
we we talk a lot about Naval gazing
within the corner
um I don't think it's a bad thing to do
that because I don't see a big
difference between that and say a daily
or a weekly
examine um but in all of this I think we
still have a responsibility to do that
now some of you might know what an
examine is uh look it up on the internet
it's a Christian practice where we
examine ourselves and there's usually
sort of a a rubric Jonathan Edwards had
a fairly famous one has pretty rigorous
one uh monastic Traditions have these
it's a rubric by which we sort of have
something out of our outside of
ourselves and then we examine our life
every week at Living
Stones we have a prayer of confession
and we have a period of Silence before
it that exist ination and in all the
terms but I do also trust the hive mind
I know that's a weird thing but we seem
to be pretty good at when let's say a
term enters uh like the latest uh I'm
thinking of is Malcolm and Simone
entering and so we have we have a
different uh sorry what was that
monoculture yeah so actually the the
urban monoculture idea I found that
really I think that's the single most
useful idea that they've they've uh they
are excellent critics and diagnos they
they are excellent diagnosticians so I
agree with pvk in that uh
the but but I guess my point is anytime
a new idea comes into the The Hive
making the the sensemaking apparatus the
hive
mind we are we are farming out the Sens
making to this this network you could
say and from what I've seen over time
and I'm interested in your thoughts on
this Chris but over time what I've seen
is that the the corner has done an
excellent job at separating the wheat
from the chaff now maybe I'm
indoctrinated and I need saving throws
and that's probably true to some extent
uh
but what what he points at here and of
course there are going to be some who
evaluate the corner in very different
terms which is fine because even if
you're engaging enough to evaluate it
you're working on this process you're
working on this distributed cognition
you're working on filtering this
together and again some of us are
external processors and I've taken my
external processing to quite a degree
now engaging the internet
and again part of what I think has made
this little corner special is we are
really working on the scalability issue
in terms
of people need people to process things
with now one of the one of the things I
I try to give visib one of the things
one of the ways I try to use my channel
is to give some visibility and because
Sunday nights are Sunday nights I don't
often I'm usually spending Sunday nights
with my family or my wife is getting
ready for Monday but every Sunday night
father Eric has sort of a a Catholic
corner of the corner and it's not just
Catholics on it but Mark is usually
there and Josh is usually there and
Emma's usually there and sy's often
there and Valerie's there quite a bit
it's it's fun to see Valerie and um I
saw that where where'd she go where'd
she go Sally Joe dropped in and so again
this is sort of distributed cognition
and what's nice is that there's a little
bit higher resolution to a lot of the
distributed cognition and maybe you
haven't got a rand's conversation yet
but you've got your on other channels
and and so not only do we sort of have a
Connected Mind there
also there are also smaller networks
within the larger
Network and that's been super
interesting super in that's been
interesting to me in terms of seeing how
that grows because you need the differ
Siz networks maybe you have this little
cluster of Roman Catholic or at least
Catholic interested people and then you
have some of the the non-christians over
there or The Seekers or and that they're
sort of all over but you have not only
do you have a Consciousness congress
with lots of voices
and actual people out there but but
they're in caucuses and coalitions and
and little groups and so that's that's
super
helpful this morning I just briefly
caught hesi on Gavin's Channel else have
a hard day do you not notice someone
else was having a hard day and the
attitude is is I'm
trying to give him tools that when he's
talking to the other right already from
a young age can you put yourself in his
shoot can you try to understand where
this person's coming from um obviously
it's difficult as a child does a lot of
ego and and a healthy amount of ego
obviously in a child that's really
thinking about himself but um and this
goes back to the beginning of the
conversation why which we were talking
about was like very meta which is like
why I like this you know this this
little corner and and again like I
stress it by like I'm not looking to
join a church obviously and like it's
not like I'm missing like that right now
in my life however having conversations
like this like these where they could be
H where they could be done in a loving
and productive
environment I mean I don't I don't know
how many other spaces you have like that
that which are filled with with
diverse uh people from diverse
backgrounds like you're not going to get
this in a therapy session and like uh
and like you said Bruth like you like
bringing up an idea to also see if if it
if it's going to hold water if it's GNA
if it's going to uh uh hold up to
so you know in a certain Cas like in a
certain case when you're by your
therapist so you know it's really your
brain Palace right like you're buying
the time to be able to like you know lay
out your ideas and sort of play some
feedback with him but ultimately this is
someone that you're paying and if he's a
good therapist he might not or or not a
good therapist depends what your opinion
is but he's not going to necessarily
give you his opinion or his advice but
you're you're looking for something else
when you bring up an idea and I I'm also
looking when I have these kind of
conversations to really like you said to
see if what I'm talking about is
nonsense am I Meandering am I am I going
in a loop is this is this is this
actually productive and I feel like
productive conversations in a space like
this where you really do have like a
global mind Palace where people get to
just drop in and explore I I would
believe you you come out from these
conversations uh a little more refined a
little more
sharpened I'm a
fan
I'm a fan ofi when I when I seei on a
live stream I click on it I whenever I'm
on and I I see a live stream Andes is on
it I click on
it I I think I think there's a lot of
disagreeable people in the corner that
do a good job of separating the wheat
from the chff
so well I mean this is distributed
cognition right I mean that's that's it
is what it you know when he talks about
what it is that's what we're
doing right the hive mind
right it's it's distributed cognition
and um yeah I don't know I mean I I I
agree with you I think as a whole I
think the group has good discernment
right um they're not bringing
in you know ideas that aren't useful and
that's that's one thing I'm always I'm
always looking for you know you can make
a model of anything but if it's not
useful I I'll I'll get rid of it pretty
quickly
so I I I'll be honest I haven't really
paid a whole lot of attention
to the Malcolm and Simone
stuff but I did pick up on that one idea
the urban and and what he said right
there is really important because again
this is difficult for some of the really
hardcore Watchers to appreciate is that
everybody is picking up on little things
I put out so many videos I just put out
a second one today on my Cyrus tomorrow
morning the John Veri video comes out
that won't be tomorrow for you because
this will probably come out tomorrow
afternoon or the day after we'll see how
tomorrow shakes out in terms of making
videos
but people are just getting little bits
and pieces and I put Malcolm on Simone
and and a whole bunch of ah no no
they're not my cup of tea oh okay other
people oh yeah yeah they're very much my
cup of tea oh okay and and because I
mean to me this has been so wonderful
because I have one of the best seats to
watch the
corner and so I in some ways even though
I can't come close to watching
everything not close but that's why I
use Grizz and I use Chad and I use Gavin
I use other channels that are sort of
watching the corner for me and then
other people like Karen and Sam they're
talking to other people so so Drew uh
Johnson was just on and I want to watch
that video for Sam because I've been
interested in Jews work work and Drew's
work and he sent me a a message about
two years ago said I'd really love you
to read my book and let me know what you
think and it's like dude you know I got
books that Publishers have sent me that
I haven't read yet and I really should
so uh good luck to you if you want to
colonize on YouTube you better you're
going to have to figure out how to do
this but you've got all different
people interacting with it with all of
their only all of their own salian
Landscapes and then watching them and
what they interest in and just back and
forth and back and forth it's an
astounding Network and if you can see it
and understand it it's astoundingly
useful what' you call it herban
monoculture that's it yeah yeah it had a
Tower of Babylon sort of feel to it to
me yeah I um I I actually still don't
even know what it means but and you know
what he said in terms of the Tower of
Babel or Tower of
Babylon now there's another great part
in this video of Chad's where he talks
about Chad really drills into him about
tell me about this discipleship training
program that you're doing in your church
because Chad and Chris have both in the
process of finding the corner and Jordan
Peterson all of this joined a church and
that's changed their life and Chad of
course continues to do his AA work and
Chris is doing a lot of discipleship
with work with his church and he's
learning how that works and so they were
comparing notes but obviously for me the
Christian Valance is
astoundingly astounding helpful but but
even ASI
says's an
Israeli and you know we sort of look
across the way and Congress is going to
have a vote on how much money to send to
Israel and American troops are active on
aircraft carriers and so but he's living
right in the area and so he's trying to
figure out how to raise his children and
how do you raise your children not just
with sort of these theoretical fights
out there or these fights on social
media but when it's a hot War around you
and so and the Israeli project I just
find endlessly fascinating in terms of
the the the rise of the observant and
and so I you know I I can listen tozi
and Jacob and and ysep talk about these
issues for a very long time because it's
one thing to be doing all this Christian
processing together it's another real
cool thing to be looking at the
non-Christian stuff because then you
begin to say okay well this is kind of a
Christian thing this is these are the
Jews working on this and and it's a
little different Dynamic but there are
similarities
so but so like I but like I was I was
like that when with the fancy bvy words
which I think actually job coined the
term fancy bvy words it was job is
hilarious um with
the
there is there does seem to be a like
um like we all kind like when the when
the new when the new words get
introduced or the new language starts to
get introduced I like this kind of this
oh like we're like like a bunch of
caveman like oh I love this section of
this this is my favorite section of this
like little clip look at this it's a
look at this strange looking you know
it's like a I don't know weird looking
Rock from like a
oh look at this oh and then we're all
like oh I like this one and so we just
kind it reminds me of the Gods Must Be
Crazy if you've never seen it where this
coke bottle gets thrown out of an
airplane and and this this Blissful
little uh this Blissful Little Village
is you know has a is turned upside down
by this coke bottle what is this silly
thing and we're like oh this kind of
looks
like four piece of knowledge or
whatever and then and then so that is
kind of fun to do and I do think it's
it's actually working on another I was
talking with Gavin this morning actually
about this about so not only are we
integrating like some new language but
we're actually integrating a new
attitude which I think is the more
important
tool um of like the the openness so like
and I think Chad is dead on right there
that yeah the new words they're cool but
it's the attitude because the attitude
is what
governs and allows all of this stuff to
work we're we're actually
um uh
developing the
openness um attitude uh which is is cool
because like oh and that that's where
when I talk about play like this is play
that's what I mean it's like oh like I
know I'm not going to go out into like
my next job tomorrow and look at the new
shower I'm putting in and start talking
to homeowner about relevance realization
you know what I mean [ __ ] are you
talking about dude just right put the
shower together you
know did you have you you know this damn
Urban monoculture he's GNA be like what
are you talking about you know it but
for us it's kind of fun we get to like
oh this is this nice little Chinese
thing it's like nobody's nobody's taking
it that seriously except maybe you know
John Veri which is great that's his work
you know he's supposed to be that's his
shower that he's building you know what
I'm saying
and and so
um I mean that's why like while
Peterson as you were talking about this
I was thinking about the
different
um the the the different um artifacts
that have made their way into
our got to pause because sometimes I
multitask our
lexicon the first one I I really think
was like
um it was two- sided the first one the
the first the one side of it was it
depends on what you mean by and then the
second the other side of that was so
what you're saying is and so that was
two sides of the same coin that that was
kind of the First toy that we started
playing with is this this question of it
it depends or what do you mean by it
depends on what you mean by so it
depends on what you mean by belief and
depends on blah blah blah that that
phrase I've called it the lightsaber
just for shits and giggles those are
both disagreeable
phrases right and and but it it was a
good tool and then the the flip side of
that which is the humorous side which is
very important I think is the so what
you're saying is phrase which is kind of
like that's the light-heartedness of it
right and so we saw that and then you
know and Neil pointing out that you have
the disagreeable side and then you have
the light-heartedness side and Chad
lately has been really working on this
because Chad really wants to keep it in
terms of play and I think for forgive me
Chad for doing a little psychoanalysis
here even though as a pastor I'm not
supposed to psychoanalyze I'm not really
psychoanalyzing I'm just reading you
because when we're reading each other
we're all inhabiting different parts of
our Consciousness Congress and and for
Chad who he's an alcoholic I haven't let
any cats out of the bag because he's
Chad the alcoholic what he talks about
in his if you watch his channel enough
he'll talk about this he tends towards
Obsession and Chris is waves of
obsession and so part of it is okay
we're going to have to balance Obsession
we're going to need something else we're
going to need some other opponent in the
opponent processing to to combat our
Obsession so Chad off often brings up
just the play and so of course John Veri
has this serious play thing which again
is sort of an built-in opponent
processing balance now John in my
conversation with him also talked about
tonos as sort of a a tension just
holding some things in tension um but so
you've got some things oh grab some
Peterson that were a little disagreeable
but then we got we've got the serious
play and so all of this comes together
and you know we're I I I said to I said
to food truck Emily this morning that
you know I I think about did I say to
her did I say to somebody else I don't
remember I think
about I I think about this little corner
as something of a distributed Spirit now
it doesn't have it its body is
distributed among
us but it's um it's definitely
got got a degree of distributed
cognition going here we got these other
weird tools you got the god number one
and God number two and then the flip
side of that is everybody wants to give
like have their own God number three
there is no God number
three no God number three there's one
and two and God the Father there's one
and two in God the Father one and two
and God the Son and one the two and God
the Holy Spirit there's no God number
three so you have these different kinds
of things and they they're helping us to
play with all these different kinds of
tools for fun
and and again like am I going to you
know am my day job or or this is why I
think the three of us had such
difficulty in I don't know who I'm going
to talk with about this stuff right like
if you L listen to all of the different
Rando conversations that Paul had I'd
say probably 90% of the people said I
had nobody to talk with about this it's
like yeah because nobody gives a [ __ ]
basically you know like um it was really
important for us to discover it but not
so that we know what uh the four Ps of
knowing are or it wasn't important for
that reason it was important for
something else so that we can actually
understand people and and
maybe maybe have like some uh uh some
some good framework underneath so that
we can actually be social with people
yeah that's what it is that's what it is
right there
because to be honest like I don't know
you guys at
all right but we've been talking for an
hour and it's it's because we all kind
of have
this pseudo shared lexicon like this
bucket of ideas that we can sort of
latch on to and have a productive
conversation of some kind it's almost
like you just close the gap right like
you said you're not going to go talking
to anybody about comod tutorial
explosiveness right you're like hey you
know
um because nobody
cares no go no no it's just it's just uh
I think that's because you know when I
was talking to deir I I felt the same
thing it's like I didn't this was
something this was one of the big
feedback points we got from Chino the
Chino conference that when people got
there they didn't have to do small talk
they could just get right to where they
wanted to go and that is because we've
been using these tools
to colonize each other in some ways to
inhabit the conscious our Consciousness
Congress so that when we meet somebody
now it's not a it's a it's a virtual
picture there are limits to this picture
but in a sense we can pick up some
things right away and keep going and
make progress along the areas that we're
interested in have to explain everything
you can just kind of like immediately go
into the good stuff without all without
all the
explaining
right right and then and then our
attitudes grow in that I've noce same as
my attitude around conversation I've
grown a little more of a confidence just
in conversation in general and being
able to float around with different
ideas and uh and just in this practice I
can actually go out with my co-workers
uh or or people at church or whatever
and feel more confident in conversation
in general so it helps me that way so
you know I know I'm not going to use any
of these kinds of words or or even these
kinds of discussions but it it's helped
me to be a better conversation list in
general which is kind of cool yeah
because well I mean it's back to the
psycho and when Chad says be a better
conversationalist you know and when he
says it that way we just sort of frame
it as sort of
self-improvement but I do see this and
I've seen it all
along what we're doing with videos what
we do with
Estuary being a good conversationalist
is a learned thing it's a
capacity wound up
watching Don't Judge
Me CU not going to give you the whole
background to how this
happened wound up watching a full season
of Love on the Spectrum on Netflix this
weekend boy do I have
thoughts love on the spectrum is a lot
of hours of now they're you trying to
use romantic love for this which I've
got a lot of thoughts about as to
whether that's a good thing or not I
don't know I don't know I don't know
but
that show is all about helping these
individuals learn conversation and and
there are some scenes in that I watched
the second season there are some Seas
scenes in that season where these these
people with significant
autism get coaching you know ask what
they like and there's one guy he was he
was the sweetest guy he had a job
cleaning up and he was just he was just
motor mouth da da da da da da da da da
da and he he was just the sweetest guy I
I you know I my heart just went out to
him right away and then I began to
realize that part of this for him was a
coping strategy in terms of anxiety and
he had just learned to talk talk talk
talk talk talk talk and that would help
the
situation
but yeah so even though all of these
three guys obviously are well within
let's say
normal
capacity of
conversation I've just I've watched Chad
now for a few years and I'm much more
interested in Chad's Channel Than I Used
to Be and I think part of it is of
course I know Chad and part of it is I
care about Chad but part of it is Chad's
channel is just better it's just better
than it used to be and Chad's leveled up
in terms of capacities and there's no
shame in that I hope I've leveled up in
the last five years I loved it when
Emily starts uh food truck Emily starts
the truck and said yeah I saw the video
and it wasn't I forget exactly what she
said something like it wasn't very
well-refined video thought yeah that's
right but no this is this is this has
purpose for what we're
doing Technologies right it's something
that permanently altered the way our
conversation list in general which is
kind of cool yeah because well I mean
it's back to the psycho Technologies
right it's something that permanently
altered the way that you think
it doesn't necessarily mean that you're
going to say relevance realization but
what is relevance realization right you
you somewhat embody that and embedded in
the way that you think and so then it's
going to come out in almost every
interaction that you
have but what Cho what chooses what what
chooses what's relevant is my point is
that I I don't I don't have control over
what I find interesting I mean Peterson
makes that point it's like how does I I
have control what I do I some control
what I do with with that information
that comes in
but that's what Grim Griz would call
your Salient
landscaper name salty salty
snitch I don't know guy's freaking
brilliant
uh and then we have innovation in the
corner one of the things that Gavin
brought on was conversations with his
wife so Gavin Palmer 138 Subs has just a
I haven't watched a lot of it I watched
the beginning of it I loved it right
away a conversation with his wife now
like many of our
wives you know they're tolerating what
we're doing on the
internet some of them aren't necessarily
always that happy about it but they're
tolerating it because well they love us
and we're their men and so then Gavin
invited his wife on there wi-fi and
wedding bands he's got a few videos with
with him and his wife and they're
looking out the window and again for
women this this YouTube thing is a whole
different thing than it is for men you
just got to admit that so then Chad does
the same thing with his wife and they
got the curtains closed they don't have
the window open let's see if they open
it now they keep the curtains closed the
whole time and they got their hands and
so this is another thing that's
happening in the Internet it's a small
small enough community that there can be
Innovations and it's not you know what
is what is Mr Beast doing to get more
clicks it's oh well that I don't know
why that's good I don't know uh but but
honey let's try it and so Ann and Chad
the Friday morning nameless I'm Chad the
alcoholic and this is a very uh exciting
show that we have in store
today uh as you can hear right now my my
dryer over there is uh going so I don't
know how many more minutes that's got
probably like an
hour
um but I I had recently
been inspired by uh Gavin had released
uh a conversation with with Kim and they
were talking about
um what it's like to be in a
relationship and have uh
somebody in the relationship uh have an
active role in in uh anyway so there's
that and also today I discovered
Charlie's little corner YouTube channel
with all of 39 subscribers and 19 videos
and he he's got a bunch of videos on
here uh I met him and got to spend a
little bit of time with him in Germany
and he
I think jumped ahead of uh Justin Wells
and made uh this little
corner documentary it's all of 12
minutes and 6 seconds long but it's
outstanding I'll play a little bit of it
for you and I'll leave the link below so
you can follow
it but anyway back to now and the future
the future is always unknown right so in
a sense that that what did you call it
the crest of reality Crest reality is
always between the known and the
unknown and and um anytime that we take
a risk when we're moving forward we're
stepping into the unknown in the same
way that you're stepping from order into
chaos and you have to see what Treasures
are there and so every moment of our
life we're on that Adventure we're on
that edge but that there's another way
in which that edge is is the whole idea
of creativity because that's where
creativity lives is right there in
between the known and the unknown how do
you become an active member of this
corner without being proficient in
everything that's being talked about so
you have some intuitions and you have
some ideas and you can't just mimic or
copy those at the the top of the
hierarchy that won't work so it has to
be something way way more you know uh
mundane or B basic yeah and I think each
and every one of us has this spark of
creativity that is it has this it's kind
of Anarchy it's like something comes to
your mind and you don't know where it
comes from and usually people don't
follow that thought but creative people
tend to make that the starting point for
something yeah that's so whatever so
whatever that anarchy is inside you it
can be painting it can be writing it can
be whatever that's I think the starting
point how we become members of this
little corner of the internet and I
think every time I hear you say we I
think it depends what we is and I think
in that sense that's that's where I see
this little
corner coming to meet this moment oh
that's a very I had to thought about
that because so you just let me make
sure I and sorry for interrupting I just
want to get it instead of the wi being
it's like no no this little corner is a
Nexus point of many different Christian
groups and non-Christian groups and the
Nexus point is perhaps the place we
should look for as the thing that will
rise to the response is that what I'm
[Music]
that's that's really good Paul and yeah
I think it's a good reminder to for the
people that are participating in this to
know that there's a way to also do this
just in general I think in a way what
this little corner has brought me is um
the ability to do more and more of this
and to see the value in it and to yeah
to carry that
out um so I think how to not how to not
just walk one mile with your neighbor
two miles yeah it's a very Christian
Motif
actually if someone asks you to walk
with him a mile do it for two miles if
someone asks you to listen for one hour
with them maybe listen too yeah so it's
it's and in that sense
it's you it's it's kind of sacred
actually it's like how do we in our
lives online and
offline participate in the world that
the world looks at us
like like a
lighthouse and that's that's an image
that I've been thinking about recently
quite quite a lot it's like no before
that I was like okay I'm a speedboat I
have to get out there I have to you know
go crazy mileage yeah fast fast fast
action and that's not how the world
what the world needs around me no what
the world needs is like you stand there
and you don't move and you
shine yeah and then people notice you
and say okay thanks for the
orientation and that at times can feel
utterly boring because you don't move
and at times it's life saving for other
people and we have to or I have to learn
to live in this tension of not moving
and at the same time accepting that me
not moving might actually be beneficial
for those around
[Music]
yeah experience especially if you also
talk to other people and you can kind of
see in your own life when you're on a
productive path that sort of ennobles
and enlightens you or a destructive path
and I think it's kind of useful to think
that maybe the dichotomy between those
two paths might be real you know and and
because that also allows you to give
Credence to your intuitions about that
sort of thing but I don't anyways I
don't think it's unreasonable to pause
it that since you're alive adopting the
highest possible regard for the fact
that you're alive and that you're
surrounded by other creatures that are
alive I just can't see how that can
possibly be construed as a losing
strategy and so that's the first thing
so that's something like Faith right
it's Faith it's not it's not only faith
in your being but it's faith in being as
such and the faith would be something
like if you could Orient your being
properly then maybe that would Orient
you with being as
such Jordan Hall and I were both using
the the the the surfing and sailing
metaphors right where you're trying to
step outside of kind of a passive
empiricism or all right so that's half
of it and it's really hard for me to
shut this down because the whole 12
minute documentary is just that good so
you can find that on Charlie's little
corner all of 39 subscribers even though
I put it out on YouTube today or not on
YouTube I put it out on on Twitter today
it has all of 72 views in 10 hours and I
I asked him I said put some uh put some
links okay put some links to
the oh now we're going to have to add
this little mus music thing to my video
because it's on there and you know
YouTube always pays attention to that
anyway yeah that's what's going
on you can leave a comment that's one
way to
play you can make a video you can show
up on a a live chat you can go to a
conference you can send somebody a
letter but um don't just watch
play
