hi this is Paul I want to talk about
YouTube dunar money all of those things
on this video I always think it's going
to be a little video but we'll see how
little it is so this morning on Luke's
live stream uh T Grog came in and he's
been haunting the comment section with
his uh physical a physicalist atheist
and he told he told a bit of his story
on the live stream that I'm not going to
deal with in this video I might grab it
for another video but it was so
wonderful to have him in there and have
him uh show up with his face and voice
and give a little bit of his story so
that was
tremendous but then the conversation
took another turn that Sam sort of uh
Sam sort of took it on so we'll start
there I'm so glad you came in this is
awesome I'm retired I gotta do
something send me can this little corner
get bigger than a dunar number in terms
of the number of people who are kind of
what's the dunar number the dunar number
is sort of like chimpanzee troops tend
to have about 200ish you know
chimpanzees and they you can remember
that many faces and sort of keep a
mental history of their personality and
all the nice things they've done for you
and all the bad things they've done for
you right it's like a credentialing
system in your mind but it only seems to
be able to handle a certain number you
can't do this with 10,000 maybe a few
hundred at most and so I feel like we're
doging the credentialing system because
we're below a dunar number in this
little corner okay so the previous
conversation with this was
about the question of expertise and T
Grog had expressed annoyance that people
like Jonathan Pau are talking about all
sorts of things and not sticking to
their expertise uh the same thing has
been leveled against Jordan Peterson the
decoding the gurus guys this is kind of
a standard thing for them people should
stay in their Lane they should only talk
about what they're expert in and nobody
should listen to them if they're not
talking about what they're expert in a
part of the problem with this is that
the world isn't made up of silos and
human beings can't live in silos the new
none of the new atheists uh the new
atheists were continually called on the
fact that they were almost all wandering
out of their areas of expertise none of
them had any expertise in the Bible and
we could have a very long conversation
about what that means means because that
is a if you actually know a little bit
about a field suddenly what you learned
in let's say what I learned in College
reading Thomas cun's history of
scientific revolutions is that this
monolithic view of expertise is not what
it thinks I just finished this morning a
conversation with um with guy the
Israeli uh professional wrestler that I
had on the channel a while ago and just
a great conversation about
kogai and and many of these issues so
Sam's Point here is really important
because Sam makes the point that
credentials
develop because you have relationships
that are beyond the face to face and
credentials have developed in many
different forms throughout history for
example in the ancient world if you were
going to people going traveling across
the world to a group of people that were
somehow connected to the people that you
were from you would come with what today
we call a letter of recommendation which
would say you don't know this guy but
you know me and I say he's okay so you
can listen to him and you can talk to
him when you get to Modern institutions
like the Christian Reformed Church I
hold a credential with the denomination
and that means that I achieved certain
educational goals I was examined by
certain bodies within the institution I
hold a cred itial in the Christian
Reformed Church that if I were to leave
Living Stones I could make my name known
and people could offer me jobs based on
the fact that I have a credential now
you can offer a job to someone else if
even if they don't have a credential but
then there's all sorts of other things
educational institutions have this right
now there's a huge teacher shortage
because teachers are since Co have been
bailing out of the profession in many
places and so teaching uh teachers will
and actually tag has a background in
teaching uh school districts will offer
emergency credentials you do a little
bit of testing but then the longer
you're in you have to sort of get your
credential up to speed so on and so
forth Sam's Point here is that part of
what's made the little corner of the
internet work is because it's
little now another piece of how it's
worked is in fact that the
credentials or the relationships which
have served instead of the credentials
have come via
YouTube you trust me because you've
listened to enough of me when Jordan
Peterson came on the scene he said I've
got hundreds of hours of classes on
YouTube if you want to know who I am go
listen now there's kind of a trick in
that because very few people will
actually listen they would rather have a
credential because a credential is a
timesaver credentials are offered by
institu ions and a big part of what's
Happening Now is sort of the collapse of
Institutions all over the place collapse
of trust and medical authorities
collapse of trust in governmental
authorities collapse of trust in
religious authorities many of these
institutions that we've been building
for the last 500 years within modernity
modernity forms certain kinds of
Institutions those things are collapsing
and it's one of the principal signs of
the of the recession of modernity in our
culture around us because institutions
are collapsing and we will have to see
if new institutions emerge but Sam
raises the questions of dunar numbers
and of course we're sort of skating
around the dunar number issue partly
because we are seeing each other face to
face via YouTube or Discord servers or
Zoom we are sort of approximating the
ancient face-to-face knowing now there's
a certain degree of um confusion in that
[Music]
because do we really know each other
face to face when we're meeting on Zoom
is there some illusion in there I'd say
yeah is do I feel like I know them
better than I know them yeah so again
this is part of the reason I'm doing
every week Estuary at Living Stones not
just because I want other people outside
of the church to know some of the people
inside of the church the people inside
of the church need to know each other
better I made a mention on a few
different episodes a few different
conversations that part of what we have
now is that women are no longer going
down to the river to wash clothes
together men are no longer going down to
the field to harvest the field together
because what they discovered is that if
they all Harvest one field then they go
Harvest another field or if you raise a
barn there were certain economies of
scale that could be afforded if you did
things collectively rather than
individualistically and now via
technology we are increasing ly isolated
as individuals and these screens are
becoming the way that we are connecting
with one another so what we're really
playing with and Sam is very right with
this stuff what we're really playing
with this is the dunar number but all of
this that we're
doing seems
free I just need a Gmail account what
does it cost to be on a to have a Gmail
account nothing sometimes I'll get the
question usually from people older than
myself what is it cost to be on YouTube
do you have to pay for
it Define
pay because part of what happened in the
do boom was that well
suddenly of course Apple had a Walled
Garden where well if you want iOS or if
you want Mac OS if you want these
operating systems you have to buy the
hardware and Apple's going to you know
use their lawyers and use their business
to sort of keep that Hardware Google
comes in and Google says we'll just give
it to you here have Gmail here have
YouTube here have calendar here have
Android you can just have it but now as
this thing has
developed people have begun to say
things like
well if you're not paying for a product
you are the product what do they mean by
that they mean well they're mining your
PR they're mining your private
information they're figuring out how to
Market to you yada yada yada and so of
course YouTube was if you go back there
was a great video on the history of
YouTube which I can't seem to find right
now but part of how YouTube YouTube
figured out early on that the key to
expanding their platform first of course
there was all this copyrighted material
and everybody freaked out about it but
then they figured out the key was
getting people to make videos for
them and then okay everybody wants to do
that but what if in fact you'd get
paid to make videos for them in fact you
don't it's sort of like the lottery you
don't actually have to pay people to
make videos for you what you have to do
is just hold out the
possibility that you might get
rich by making
videos and that sort of functions in our
imagination like let's say the uh mega
bucks or these these public lotteries
that we have in the United States that
people know the odds are small but they
still buy tickets well why well because
what $2 $4 $5 it doesn't cost me that
much but maybe I'll get rich and so it's
not just wealth that sort of motivates
people it's Fame it's all sorts of
things but again the thing that YouTube
offered was compensation after a
thousand Subs in a certain number of
hours you can be monetized what does
monetization mean well that means that
there'll be ads and then you'll get a
little bit of the ads and then that goes
up and up and up and up and then well
very quickly the ads were annoying so
then well let's let's offer let's offer
YouTube premium so you don't have to see
the ads okay and so on and so forth
let's play a little bit more of this
video on the Dunbar number because
that's where this comes in and obviously
there are a lot of um lurkers who are
who know the dunar people but who aren't
in the dunar circle themselves but I
wonder I think that's part of the the
nature of our group yes and what we are
doing with YouTube and these
conversations is playing with that dunar
number and the key thing that the key
takeaway this morning is we all wanted
to talk to T Grog because he's been
visible in the comments section and we
wanted to see more of
him that's the key takeaway this morning
and personal this is this is what we're
doing we're playing with the stun Bar
number well I'm feeling very loved
that's very that's fantastic oh don't
worry there's some people gonna comment
on this about pvk and his vicious love
bombing people that's so wrong and
grifty no there's nothing wrong with
that I can go to the Mormon Church
they'll do the same thing exactly
exactly a tactic to get you to convert
yeah the best thing about us is that
we're not must Mor true right of Heaven
it's true in a iCal sense
see but we are playing with that because
we do and and and because the dunar
number is extremely stressed right now
because of the because of social media
and so what we're trying to do is figure
out different ways to
tribe
oh is that the GTH Brooks the G Brooks
song a new way to
tribe a new way to tribe
sorry there are no experts here guys
just so you know nobody's ever claimed
to be one that's that's my that's the
only two cents I wanted to put in like I
would say I think that uh Luke is an
expert on personalism but he would never
claim to be an expert on such a thing
and if he did I would be like you're not
a [ __ ] expert but that was my whole
beef I'm really sorry I'm really glad to
hear from you T Grog it was uh
fascinating discussion guys really good
and Tim what's up
Tim holla I got well I do have to run
guys and Paul um I don't hate you I
think your ideas are unclear
and I don't understand them that's all
that's not Paul's job Paul isn't the
have the ideas person he he is the
landscaper or the San land landc Caper
director of everybody it's not Paul's
job to invent the propositions or a
catalyst he's not that kind of leader
everybody want we're going to talk about
the hyberg confession at some point so
catechism I'm the expert it's heidleberg
catechism thank you I good workout enjoy
your work out Grog Gotta Go Gotta Go
Bye no man Tim
unfortunate come and rain on our parade
I'm G to Jump Ahead here I'm going to
jump ahead here back to the dumb Bar
number on the uh the institutional on
the credential L just for a second
because I
mean you can you can find the same
information that you could learn in a
college online and you can educ you
literally can put yourself through the
education now you don't get tested
necessarily but it's a diff it's a new
world it's a it's a new world for what
it means to be an expert because it also
control who gets accredited and how we
can leverage that power that Authority
into power that we can use for a point
so that we now YouTube YouTube control
YouTube controls it now with who they
allow to as send yeah because really
that because it because it it it
measures for expertise in the algo like
it's gonna give you the best if you want
it but and so YouTube you can YouTube
can allow that to happen organically or
it can try and medal with it but the
more try Ms with it the more it weakens
itself yeah yeah the better it allows
that to be an an organic bottomup
process without you know doing too much
top down medling the better YouTube is
that's what I'm talking about there are
there are controls of something they
don't want to get X too big but if they
they do allow things to come up through
that are that are
quality to have a quality to them which
is why my channel is so
small well I know you've colonized gril
pretty hard but it's growing well this
is I I'm always asking Nate and trying
to keep up I'm just like do you want me
to be doing these on your channel
because I don't know I mean it's
probably why it's gotten as big as it
has but I don't yeah I don't know I'm
always what's funny about the whole
internet thing is it's
constantly flipping my own narrative
because like I started out somewhat of a
leite and then I got onto Twitter and
then eventually YouTube
for I don't know adult conversations and
things these this kind of Engagement and
then I'm like all of a sudden well I
don't know this
is this seems like a real communion like
I like a lot of these people I've
developed a relationship with these
people well that goes against my my
narrative and then scale I don't know
like I try to be open to scale but like
I am I'm doubtful of it I'm doubtful of
extrapolate I think it's a limitation of
our own finitude and our embodiedness
you just you can't pay attention to
everything and to 500 people you I mean
not meaningfully but think think about
how
Christianity um deals with the dunar
number and always has Jesus has Peter
James and John yeah and then he has the
12 disciples and then he has the 72 and
then he has 20 and the the church in
Corinth and the church and then there
are multiple churches in Corinth and I
mean and so now and you have the house
church and discipleship and the small
group and the catsize church and the
mega church and the book and the
denomination I mean we are doing we are
working on this again and that's why
Luke you're I mean let's give perhaps to
Jacob who came up with the just chatting
um I mean Jacob did that and we're
continuing to work on this but the the
expert thing the expert thing is is
gonna is having a real hard time because
of the dunar number thing
because experts are in the eye of the
beholder which again is
personal oh
snap well Once Upon a Time institutions
were able to help with the scaling of
credentialism and credibility and
expertise to get beyond the dumbar
number and that has a huge amount of um
there there's a lot of up side on that
Luke that I think you're just counting
the problem is is that those
institutions used to operate with a lot
more good faith from the people
participating in them than I think that
they have now and they are trying to be
gained by people which weakens them and
it it's not like I you know an MD is
still probably better not an MD but I
had a you know a decent sized argument
with my wife yesterday about some
medical advice that
uh was given to our children at the
Urgent Care and um I thought differently
and my wife thought differently and so
now of a sudden we're sending each other
scientific studies and you know it's
like a well because that will flip is
which experts and trainees do you trust
and are is the medical establishment
actually making people
healthier that wasn't like that wasn't
the spirit of what Grog was saying
initially um and I feel like this coners
ation is like getting more and more
disingenuous like away from the fact
that I think you would all agree with
which is in every aspect of Our Lives we
rely on Experts we rely on credentials
to
reliably and those expertise that
expertise has to be
paid I'm I'm G to go back because I want
him to finish the speech and it's a good
speech but this is part of what's
happening in church life now is that the
kind of vocation and career that I have
enjoyed is going
away a a a fully
paid middle class Minister he's fully
paid because he's got a master's
degree um the church a church a church
the size church that can support such a
thing now is radically different because
it used to be that a church of 100 to
200 could support that
because facilities were less
costly and especially
because the minister was the only
employee of the church might be a little
bit for music or a bulletin secretary
but not much now there's expectations
there's going to be a children's
ministry director or maybe a children's
ministry director a youth director a
musical
[Music]
director so when um when food truck
Emily's video comes to the full Channel
she's a worship leader and we talk about
that in the conversation so church has
scaled because institutions have scaled
in some ways these institutions have
grown so large and they're dealing with
so much they're dealing with so much
abstraction they're
collapsing display someone's competency
or
authority um and I think the point he
was making was that everyone in this in
this stream right now does this except
for the Christians when it comes to
other Christians is that as long as this
Christian guy whether his name is
Jonathan Pou whether he has zero
subscribers or a thousand subscribers
whatever as long as he's saying things
that I
like he's correct but and in terms of
the algorithm again we're crowdsourcing
here as long as the right people are
listening for the right amount of time
the algorithm is going to continue to
promote that video and from this side of
a YouTube channel you see very quickly
how if the algorithm decides to promote
a video it goes now I've also seen that
some of the there have been a handful of
videos that the algorithm has sort of
grabbed hold
of and those videos have gotten a lot of
views those videos are not talked about
in the corner it's very interesting
how videos are sort of coming around on
the other side because we're sort of
hitting the the question of
crowdsourcing and how effective it
is now twice during this video I thought
of videos I wanted to play for you but I
couldn't find them even though YouTube
is a search engine I didn't remember
enough key particular keyword things
that would differentiate those videos
from what the algorithm thought I should
watch based on all sorts of things
usually the size of the video and the
size of the audience so this I you know
I'm deeply skeptical about the way that
algorithmic crowdsourcing can ex can
replace let's say institutional
expertise but but this is
where technological
disruption is never really quite what
you think the newspaper doesn't quite go
away the telegraph doesn't quite go away
the buggy whip doesn't quite go away the
internal combustion engine doesn't go
away the way the governor of California
thought it would but I love my electric
vehicle and I I wouldn't um I I wouldn't
you know I I'm so glad for my electric
vehicle and I love it I love the way I
can charge it at home I love the way it
drives I love all these things about my
electric vehicle but having the ability
to get a to gas up in a gas station
that's pretty cool so I couldn't find
those videos I wanted to find it even
just show you a little bit not even any
anything from the video but even the
title of the video I can't find it but
waves of obsession I could find and so
waves of obsession now 550 51 views on
to talk on his latest
and you know what's he doing he's not
this is an algo curating it and of
course it's under a thousand Subs so
there's no
ads on his videos because YouTube
doesn't bother to give him ads at some
point we'll have to see if YouTube
continues to give away
free uh free
bandwidth and free storage space just
like YouTube has been calling old
inactive Gmail addresses at some point
it's quite reasonable that this calling
will come to YouTube and this is
something that those of us who are sort
of
using this right now had better be
careful because another piece of modern
institutions is just like modernity it's
sort of up there and we imagine it's
permanent and will stay there forever
YouTube will
not because there's no other corporation
that giveth and taketh away without much
notice as YouTube or as as Google I used
to use Google notebooks I loved that I
was keeping all kinds of things in
Google notebooks and then one day Google
notebooks is going going away I used to
use Google Music where they had sort of
a they had sort of a locker situation
cuz I had all of this idiosyncratic
music and audio files and I uploaded
them to my my Google Music thing and I
could find them and I I loved the way it
worked and then oh no we're all going to
YouTube music now this is going away and
and you'd like to say don't you know it
it was like it was one election people
are like don't make Social Security
government
program it is a government
program
Google is in charge of this platform it
does what it Wills now mine like
Jonathan and others my videos are
duplicated over on
Odyssey that could go away I look at
their business model it's like but
there's no ads on Odyssey there's no ads
on my audio
podcasts but what's happening even
though the algorithm has taken certain
of my videos and sort of sent them up
there and you can actually grow a
channel I I was looking at I won't name
the channels I was looking at some
channels that are sort of in this sphere
and they often if they did like say
movie criticizing and you do clips from
movies people really like that so you'll
get a video with a lot a lot of views
for the one video and very little
engagement on the rest of the videos
because this is way more complex but now
when I look at say what Chris is doing
with waves of obsession and what Charlie
Brown is doing with the little
documentary that I posted played a
little bit of this is pretty important
you know it's one of those things you
kind of forget about but you can't
really truly forget about it I'm
deconstructing a term like psycho like
psycho technology and I and I point out
it's and what's super helpful for me
here is I've made so many videos and
I've been doing it so long I forgotten a
lot of what I made videos and even today
in the live stream Luke reminds me of Oh
you talked to another guy named Luke and
that guy was this and that and this Luke
remembered it I had forgotten it now I
might be able to go back and find it but
what we're doing here is something that
the algorithm can't
do it's embeddedness in one of the three
meta world viws that isn't to say I'm
not going to use the language I'm just
going to
remember some of its embedding when I do
use the language because some of that
embedding will continue to impact what I
call my Consciousness committee such an
interesting word psycho
technology and so I just started
thinking about it again and really
actually started thinking about all of
the the little pervy words what what
comes to the top of your mental salian
High
Archy a radical transformation in your
Salient landscape a radical
transformation of right what it's like
to be you for V's been just wonderful in
terms of giving me language for stuff
that I I've known but couldn't talk
about to say I'm not going to use the
language there's probably a fancy ver VY
word for what I'm
just that's where it
happened that's where it happened right
there and this is the funny thing about
naming the algorithm will not pick that
up
until it's already gone through and you
type in fancy Veri words and you're
probably going to get some get some
YouTube hits but
job and that's the amazing thing about
naming that human beings do and and
that's why it's interesting how Jordan
Peterson connects naming with Revelation
because there's a deep tie
there describing
to say I'm not going to use the language
but one of the things that John has done
is that he's really created a powerful
vocabulary to talk about the things and
so when I don't know what what to say
sometimes I'll just reach it I'll like
have my little John Riki dictionary is
as as as I'm continue to realize the
relevance of that concept I to say I'm
not going to use the language fancy Veri
words as some the people in my community
call it optimization of relevance
realization right sacred optimization of
relevance realization it's relevance
realization and spirituality that that
that very fudgy word the relevance
realization worship is relevance
realization that's what worship to say
I'm not going to use the language giving
me language to understand you know
participatory
knowing and all of this stuff use your
language it can scale or to use my
language like it's this ongoing it's
this inexhaustible F the amount of
information available to you is
combinator explosive it is vast it is
overwhelming the amount of things you
could pay attention to in this room you
could look at that spot right there or
that spot or the relationship between
the spots you can do that you're capable
of it when you think about it carefully
now the amount of ways you could look at
this room and attend to it is
combinatorial explosiv so the first
thing
is you you start to look at how did the
language how did it even come into the
corner in the first place right how did
it get there you think about the LOL
right you had Peterson sort of drop out
for a while you had Pou and Veri step
into the space
and Veri in particular came in with the
meaning crisis and his whole lecture
series well with that is where a lot of
this language originated
from now ver Vicki kup used using the
same language in a lot of his interviews
and a lot of his conversations now now
what's what's incredible is that we're
watching we're watching Chris process
and that's of course what my channel has
been you're watching me process now I'm
not me and me's not
Chris
but something's happening and that's I
just played three minutes of the 25 that
it's an excellent video and what he does
through through this video is he he's
got a lot of fun stuff in this video and
and what's interesting is you know he's
grabbing some clips that I some clips
that I know and then he's grabbing
things that I don't know anything about
and just on and on and on and on and on
so what are we
doing like very rarely do you ever see
somebody come forward go it's not just
that you like what he saying I think
it's that you find it interesting and
compelling and capturing and deserving
of your
attention I think deeper than that you
like it or you find it false and you get
angry about it but that still keeps you
watching you know it can be more complex
than just that but it's but you know two
weeks to flatten the curve if you get
this injection you won't get covid um I
mean there have been this this thing has
been under just read Thomas cunes the
history of scientific revolutions I mean
that was the peak that well science is
going to deliver us from the from the
tyranny of personal preference and what
Thomas [ __ ] notes in the history of
scientific revolutions is that science
itself is
communal not only that there's no
getting away from the personal and
there's rituals not only that as a nurse
I I I work with heart surge every week
every week I work with the best in the
state you know where I would send my dad
to get his heart surgery if he has
coronary artery disease I would send him
wherever I'm
at wherever that surgeon has to look at
me I don't care how and you know what's
you know what's interesting if I had to
go in for heart surgery and I lived near
Christian Baxter even though I just know
him a little bit here on
YouTube
I'd probably want to go where Chris is
working
too because this is where we get into
heiger credentials okay well how about
heiger I'll drop a fancy philosopher
name
care
attention because if I go to a hospital
here in Sacramento I'm a
rando I'm not saying they're bad
hospitals I think I'll get good care
members of my church will come and visit
me the nurses will see somebody cares I
see this all the time with older people
if you have a if you have someone who's
living alone or they have no children
and they go into a nursing home it can
be a good nursing home but good
luck you want to know how to get good
nursing home care have a kid that's
going to be visiting all the time and
checking with the nurses and building
relationship with the staff and so on
and so forth that person's parent in the
nursing home will get good care and the
person who just goes in and is loved by
the
institution how [ __ ] good his ining
are is if he is in the top if he's the
rated by whatever institution as the
best surgeon in the world I would send
him to wherever I'm at and that surgeon
has to look at me yep and that's what
Pou talks about in his art conference I
put this in my last video he says the
world doesn't want to maybe admit that
maybe we're built on more than just
things but that it might be built on
things like care as a human and that
care is a real right there was
Peterson's Revolution right there thing
and it might be considered imaginary by
like T Grog but I I don't see it as
imaginary when I take care of people
physically as a vocation and and knowing
inside myself and the moral quandries
that I that I feel inside myself of what
what does it mean to care for this
patient am I a caring person today uh
and and so I think that that's that's
the tension between credentialism and
what Paul was just hitting on which is
the personal and and
accountability another part of what
you're talking about is like that doctor
is going to be accountable to you uh
Andor a community if they mess up and
that's another difficulty with scale is
when you know it's not that there is an
accountability you know suing someone
for medical malpractice is a
institutionalized procedural form of
accountability but it's different and
has weaknesses that losing status in
your own Community if you do wrong by
someone um yes doesn't that and Jordan
Hall found that in a town of 8,000
people he doesn't maybe even know about
what he walked into is is a community of
care and Trust oh he
doesn't he has no idea what he stepped
into all right so that's just a little
bit and I'll put the link to that live
stream below but I want to come back
because actually I made this video
partly in response to a comment that
someone said noticing the ads in the
videos and I've I've thought a ton about
this kind of stuff over the years and
I've had different ways of trying to
approach ads and because I a person who
hates ads I will if I if I have a
streaming service I will pay I haven't
done this with Amazon yet because I'm
really annoyed I I didn't wasn't
watching a lot of Amazon anyway but I
will generally paid a little bit extra
so that there are no ads and I've used
YouTube premium and I got a family plan
and I gave it to a bunch of my kids and
my wife because ads on YouTube are
horrendous I I didn't know this until I
started making YouTube videos and then
it's like okay and then the then few
years into it we're monetized I
monetized the channel because I was I
also watch what's happening with YouTube
because YouTube is a Main Avenue by
which my stuff is going out part of the
reason Jordan Peterson went to daily
wire is he knew that YouTube could get
shaky and Michaela just put a just put a
um a video a little thing on Twitter
that we can uh I'll set it up so you
have to open up a YouTube window that
isn't logged into anything so you can
see right up here where it's not signed
in and then if you start searching if
you search okay watch YouTube channels
with chrome dismiss yeah Google I
understand I am the product okay p
auu
l now Paul Paul Harold Paul Wall Paul
Paul Begley space
the versus but even just Paul V one two
three four five I'm six down just Paul V
that's pretty good
but see right away our sort of
modernistic mind we sort of generalize
and we think anybody in the world who
checks this and I'd be curious I'm doing
this out there and you can put in the
comment section of this video how many
down am I on a non-signed in browser
because it's also checking geography
because my IP address is going to Google
and says well people in this area will
check for these things so on and so
forth well Michaela Peterson's point was
if you go j o r d a oh H H Michaela it's
it was so funny g r second one down I
wonder if uh Michaela's tweet got a
little bit of uh recognition I don't
know because I tried it too um oh I
should find the Tweet okay so I can't
find it now but I don't know if somebody
fixed it or what but it was very
interesting but of course the whole game
on YouTube is to get on to this first
page
and that's that's the that's the whole
game to get on to this first page to try
to get try to get the clicks to try to
get the money etc etc with this with
this un with this page they're just
doing full guessing at what you might
want to
see
so then I saw this video because
annoying popups are working I thought oh
that's bad
news cool if it works okay and my first
story of the week will be more news from
Google that really caught my eye this
week which is that they just announced
how much money they are making from
subscriptions we all know that Google
has its massive advertising business
which continues to do incredible numbers
nearly $250 billion in Revenue in the
last year but what has surprised me is 2
50
billion but is just how strongly Google
has been growing its subscriptions
Sundar Paya said this week that
subscriptions were growing strongly and
have reached $15 billion in annual
revenue which is almost $4 billion per
quarter and up 500% compared to 2019
which means it's growing way faster than
its ad business for comparison YouTube
ads have made $9.2 billion last quarter
so subscriptions now make almost half as
much money as YouTube ads do that's
important so I got the invitation to do
the membership thing that membership
money well that's subscription
money and what's interesting is that
okay but now I've been enjoying the
membership complexity to the channel
because for example it allows me
to post some conversations that would
never be out on the open
Channel and
increasingly I'm getting comments from
people I'm having conversations with
that such and such an
element is okay behind the membership
wall where there's only 300 some people
but I don't want that aspect of my
conversation out on the open wall on the
open internet because that could get me
into trouble even though a subscription
is only $3 a month of which Google keeps
30%
so we should all be paying attention to
this because right now we're all sort of
using
YouTube but YouTube is also using us
into to a degree it's like okay we're
using each other okay okay and at some
point you kind of
say I don't know if I want to keep using
them or allow them to use me
and the four main subscription types for
Google are YouTube premium YouTube music
YouTube TV and Google one so if you're
wondering why they are pushing YouTube
premium so hard and why they're blocking
ad blockers so hard the answer is
because it's working I was and that's
where the comment came I I'm using ad
blockers and the ad blockers aren't
working
and the the software writers at Google
are very smart and they're going to keep
fighting this
war and
at some point whether or not your
channel is monetized or demonetized it's
not going to
matter ads are coming it's just the way
it's going to be I was particularly
surprised when Pai revealed that Google
won the service de bundle's drive
storage a VPN in the US and a few other
things is about to hit 100 million
subscribers which is actually way more
than I expected and Pai said that AI
features will be added on top of this
pile soon too $15 billion means that
Google is now making more money from
subscriptions than a company like
Spotify for example it is 6% of the
company's overall revenue of alphabets
that is and it is also growing faster
than any other major segment that they
have pretty wild and that's key and
recently I noted that
Spotify is changing they have a new
contract with Joe Rogan
and you know you're going to probably be
able to watch The Joe Rogan Experience
on
YouTube we can expect continuing
recalibrations of things like from the
daily wire and other content providers
and I've been noticing that more and
more mainstream Network news is on
YouTube so you don't have to actually I
mean Cable cable is dying and almost
dead and so YouTube is sort of
becoming a a new channel for other kinds
of content with paid sponsorships etc
etc
so this space is going to continue to
change and you know I can understand why
Peterson sort of jumped into daily wire
to give them a bit little bit of A Safe
Harbor from this
but I don't know what to tell you I
don't know what to tell you I mean I use
YouTube premium because I like just
using YouTube
and there the look how much there's this
five minutes of this video that I not
not even five minutes there two and a
half minutes of this video I
played I was talking to one guy I know
who is is his day job is YouTube making
videos about an area that is not
anywhere near this
area he says you know if he just lets
Google put in ads there's like one ad
every minute and a half and then he puts
ads in so they're like they're every 45
seconds
and I well that's that video would be
unwatchable well his videos are a lot
shorter
too
but YouTube isn't going to be sort of
the continue to be sort of the open
space it's not going to just sort of get
closed down and then the question is of
course what does that
do to this whole
thing what is it doing to it
now and actually we're seeing a lot of
this with respect to
churches in the next 10 to 15
years I I'll
guess America will lose between 15 and
20% of its
churches and there will be there going
to be more and more Church
buildings that are going to be up for
sale now in major metropolitan areas in
high growth cities like in high property
value places like here on this corner of
Floren and Amherst and
Sacramento this piece of land will get
gobbled up
fast and it'll get a good price and then
that money will then go back to
denominational structures yada yada yada
this a very long
thing but
culturally the church is going to
continue to
change and adap
adapt
and so it's going to be very interesting
where this all goes because all of these
things are connected the institutions
expertise
[Music]
economics what doesn't change as much is
of course the
caring
because we watch because we
care and the algorithm might shoot a
video up about the Asbury
um Revival that algorithm shot that
video up for me the video with Sarah
Haider talking about atheist the
algorithm grabbed a hold of that for me
um the first video that I did on
critical Drinker the algorithm grabbed
that for me just and I noticed because
the usual pattern of my videos is that
waking hours in Europe and America are
kind of the high peak sorry Australia
you just don't have that many
people those are kind of the peak for me
in terms of viewership
and I noticed that when algo would grab
a video they would get lots of plays in
the middle of the night and then I
thought nobody's watching these videos
these are people that have their
television on to YouTube just running
247 an algorithm is just throwing that
out there and so people look at that
video and say oh it's got a lot of
views none of these numbers on YouTube
mean what we think they mean if you want
to sort of have a sense of what things
mean
listen to the
people now again I just did this
conversation with guy the wrestler and
it was again a great conversation and
it's in no wait no ads right now it'll
come to the full Channel everything that
goes into no wa no ads some of those of
you who like I want to see it right now
everything that goes into no wait no ads
comes to the full Channel everything
that goes into the member level might
not come to the full Channel okay those
are the differences between the
layers so
anyway there's a lot to think about in
all of this
so leave a comment let me know what you
think because your comments are a much
[Music]
better better your comments are
data I look at how many people watch the
video I look at how long they watch the
video I look at all of these things from
Google but your comments mean caring
