this is Paul and this is rough draft for
Sunday where I run through the current
version of my Sunday
sermon I didn't even know Netflix had a
had a piece on Alexander until something
came up on Twitter on an account called
end wokeness where it said Netflix made
a do new documentary about Alexander the
Great within the first eight minutes
they turned him
gay wow there was so much to think about
in that tweet um um many of us over the
last number of years have had an
education in how much the Jesus
Revolution changed sexuality and its
Norms worldwide everywhere that
Christianity
went well the really interesting thing
about Alexander really isn't the fact
that he behaved like a
um prince in the classical World in
terms of his sex life it's a little bit
more interesting that in fact he was
called the Son of God and the story on
Netflix I saw the first episode at least
partially uh that they mentioned and
that was interesting too in terms of the
way it was framed why was Alexander a
son of Zeus and why did people easily
believe that and why might they believe
that how could this young man conquer
the world and why did that make him a
god completely unrelated to this someone
pointed me to the work of Thomas Carlile
who wrote a book in 1840 on Heroes and
the first chapter grabbed my attention
right away let us look for a little
let's let us look for a little at the
hero as Divinity the oldest form of
heroism now that was really interesting
now of course uh hero ideas and motifs
and archetypes have been around quite a
bit um Joseph Campbell wrote hero with a
thousand faces the monomyth or the one
story that inhabits seemingly all the
hero movies has been around quite a
while and we've become familiar with
this now in secular in a secular age
people don't necessarily connect that
with a God but pretty much everyone in
the ancient world would the reason the
the way that you know Alexander the
Great is a God in the ancient world is
because in fact he conquered the world
if he had failed to conquer the world
then he wouldn't be a God that's kind of
the way that goes and those categories
are very different from the categories
that we tend to walk around with here
because of
Christianity now we might think that but
one of my favorite go-to pieces during
the Trump presidency was this story out
of India of one young man um here
setting up an an idol to president
Donald Trump and setting up an altar and
doing little sacrifices to him and in
fact that is very much in keeping with
that ancient way of thinking we are
quite clear as to what sort of God or
hero we want we want someone who's going
to be a winner we want someone who's
going to conquer we want someone who's
going to change the world and we want
someone who's going to change the world
in alignment with how we think the world
should be
changed now today's Story begins and in
a place on the way to cesaria Philippi
now that might just sound like one of
those strange biblical names but if you
look at what's in the title cesaria well
that's Caesar Philippi well what famous
philli is there in history well Phillip
of Macedonia who who just so happens to
be the father of Alexander the Great my
my my what a coincidence why on Earth
well we'll about to see which story
happens here why on Earth would this
conversation happen in a place in one of
the villages around a city named cesaria
Philippi and and and how would how could
such a city be named well if you look
for cesaria Philippi on the map today
you won't find it why well it's in a
place called the Golan Heights which
some of you might know that after The
Six Day War is basically kind of a no
man's land between Israel and Syria and
still a contested one um it's called
Banas or Bas um it's a site in the Goan
Heights near a natural spring once
associated with the Greek god pan well
that's interesting what what is the
Greek god pan well the Greek god pan is
the god of the god of the wild the god
of Shepherds and the god of flocks of
rustic music and the companion of nymphs
he's associated with fertility and and
the season of
spring it's located at the foot of Mount
Herman north of the Golan Heights in the
Israeli portion the spring is the source
of the Bas R River one of the main
tributaries of the Jordan River and in
fact there is an ancient city there um
that was founded sometimes after the
conquest of bum bum bum Alexander the
Great the God we knew we got to meet in
the first slide and who is now on
Netflix not in sort of a a Victorian
Motif which would make us looking back
through history at Alexander sort of a
man's man who would never do the kind of
thing that we see in Netflix hence sort
of evoking the the response that this
person
gave and the city is found well this
city is the location of this
conversation we're about to
see on the way he asked them who do
people say that I
am they replied some say John the
Baptist others say Elijah now John the
Baptist and Elijah well prophets
Heroes and still others one of the
prophets that seems to be where people
are kind of locating
Jesus
but what about you he asks now we've
seen the disciples and they've been
often terrified of Jesus after he Stills
the storm they wonder what on Earth he
is and after he drives out Legion and
then he and then he when this woman sort
of pickpockets a miracle off his
clothing he's kind and gentle to her and
he restores gyrus daughter to life okay
disciples you've been watching me for a
while who do you say that I am
Peter answered speaking for the rest of
them no doubt you are the Messiah the
anointed one the
Christ and Jesus warned them not to tell
anyone about him H but what on Earth did
that word mean what was a messiah a
Christ what was a Son of God
well Julius Caesar was declared a God by
the Roman senate making Caesar Augustus
a Son of God tiberias the son of Caesar
Augustus was now on the throne oh
lineages Divine lineage there um
Alexander the Great a Son of God this
Gods all around H who do you say that I
am you're a messiah oh they're not going
to say a God that would not be very
Jewish of them but you're a rescuer
you're a hero you're born in the city of
David you're in the lineage of David we
all know what we want you to
do maybe you'll be like well maybe the
great politician Caesar Augustus who
gave the Peace of Rome or maybe you'll
be Alexander the Great who conquered the
world at such a young
age and then he began to teach them that
the son of man well the son of man if
you read about him in Daniel 7 he's kind
of like one of those figures he's an
emperor he
rules must suffer many
things I suppose they suffer in some
ways but that's not really that's not
really the focus of what we see them
doing and he must be rejected by the
elders well I suppose they should be
killed for rejecting him the chief
priests well maybe them too and the
teachers of the law off with their
heads that he must be be killed and
after 3 days Rise Again wait a minute
what what what what kind of a story is
this he spoke plainly about that if you
remember going back we he talked about
he' spoke in m in Parables to the crowds
but his disciples he spoke plainly and
here he's speaking
plainly this is what the son of man now
notice how he doesn't say me he doesn't
say Jesus he began to teach them that
the son of man
Mark locates him there and you find
Jesus using this title again and again
and
again Peter took him aside because
clearly um Jesus you you don't
understand we're heading to cesaria
Philippi where we've got all of this
we've got all of this stuff around
us you know why we signed up for you
don't you you you know what this is
about right Jesus I I mean the script is
there David did it to the
Philistines well the macbes did it to
the
Greeks it's time for you to do it to the
Romans we're all waiting for it Jesus
come on
now so Peter takes him aside and begins
to rebuke him this this this talk about
going and getting killed um that that's
not the
plan but when Jesus turned and looked at
his disciples he rebuked
Peter in front of the disciples notice
all the turning that is being done here
you can see sort of the relational map
between them
and Peter is at least going to take him
aside and do something very polite I
don't Jesus I don't really want to call
you out in front of the rest of them but
you you're doing it
wrong and now Jesus turns and is about
to tell Peter in front of everyone um no
Peter you're doing it wrong in fact
you're doing it so wrong I'm going to
say a
really hard
thing get behind me friend no it doesn't
say that get behind me
Satan just called Peter
Satan he said you do not have in mind
the concerns of God but merely human
concerns well we could stop right there
and talk about that line for the rest of
the
day but at least what it means is
they've got in their mind everything
that everyone would naturally have in
their mind that Jesus will be another
Caesar that Jesus will be another
Alexander that Jesus will be the kind of
God that ancient empires knew people
wanted to Aspire to
become a God who will do the kinds of
things that Nations hope they will do at
least the Nations that own such
Gods is Jesus a
hero now we've done a lot of talking
about
heroes the hero's journey the hero's
Story the hero's narrative Heroes Heroes
Heroes the second chapter which is how I
got into that Thomas Carlile book was he
makes the argument that Muhammad was a
hero because Muhammad was the kind of
guy who developed a successful Empire
Tada wouldn't Jesus
be wouldn't it be smart for Jesus to
kind of do like Muhammad or do like
David or do like the mccabes or do like
Alexander or do like
Caesar now this question should disrupt
us
because like
Peter had in mind with respect to
Messiah well what is a
hero not only does he turn and rebuke
Peter in front of the
disciples now he calls the crowd and
again you might think um you know Peter
was just nice to sort of take Jesus
aside and and and rebuke him privately
Jesus is taking this up different levels
so he calls the crowd to him with his
disciples and
says whoever wants to follow me to Rome
grab a sword and we're going to kill
anybody who stands ahead of us well he
doesn't say
that he says whoever wants to be my
disciple whoever wants to follow me must
deny themselves take up their cross and
follow me now
now I want you to many of you have heard
this verse often and so it has no punch
but this word cross here and how he is
using it I want you to remember this
when in a little bit in this sermon
we're going to talk about how ghastly
how unspeakable how this was not the
kind of image you would use in polite
company now some of you listening to
this have nice little gold crosses
around your neck you have nice little
crosses on your
wall nobody would have that we're going
to talk about Justin Bri's podcast that
he just released this week and he talks
about the fact that there's really not a
lot in the historical documents about
crucifixion because well first of all
everybody understood it and second of
all nobody wanted to think about it
because it was just that ugly and
ghastly and
offensive whoever wants to be my
disciple must deny themselves and take
up their cross they have a cross coming
to them their cross and follow me for
whoever wants to save their life will
lose it but whoever loses their life for
me and for the
gospel will save it what good is it for
someone to gain the whole world well
that's what Caesar did that's what
Alexander did didn't they gain the world
isn't that what Jesus is talking about
Jesus says basically what good is that
what did it ever do for Caesar where is
he well he's dead and praised what about
Xander what a good for well he's dead
and praised um was he killed was he
poisoned by his
troops
maybe what good is it for someone to
gain the whole world yet for yet forfeit
their soul or what can anyone give in
exchange for their soul if anyone is
ashamed of me in my words in this
adulterous and sinful generation the son
of man will be ashamed of them when he
comes in his father's Glory with his
Holy Angels now here again I know that
there's always a little um drama around
this son of man phrase when I use it in
this way but the son of man is the
figure that comes in the father's Glory
with the Holy Angels it's the kind of
figure we see in Daniel 7 the son of man
is is kind of an emperor type figure and
and you kind of Imagine a a general
coming with his
troops and he basically says well if
you're ashamed of me now I'll be ashamed
of you then yeah but H how can I be
proud of someone
who has a cross it doesn't make any
sense and he said to them truly I tell
you some of you standing here will not
taste death before they see before they
see that the kingdom of God has come
with power well in this context we're
thinking Jesus is just so confusing
because on one hand Peter is trying to
give him some good sound advice about
how to be the kind of Messiah the kind
of Alexander the kind of Caesar the kind
of David the kind of M mccabes that
everybody knows everybody knows how to
do do
that get a following get some
swords throw off the
oppressor build a palace have a
throne have police just just just do
that and he
doesn't the kingdom coming in power well
what does that
mean what does this do to all of our
implicit definitions of Messiah or hero
Jesus is clearly disrupting
it now after six days Jesus Took Peter
James and John with him and led him up a
high mountain where they were all alone
then he was transfigured before them his
clothes became dazzling white whiter
than anyone in the world could bleach
them and there appeared before them
Elijah and Moses who were talking with
Jesus Peter said to Jesus say Rabbi it
is good for us to be here let's put up
three shelters one for you one for Moses
and one for
Elijah it's kind of like a palace right
you're up top of the mountain it's kind
of like a a a natural Palace a Heavenly
Palace this is the palace we've all been
waiting
for he did not know what to say they
were frighten so here it is again
they're terrified of him on the Sea of
Galilee when he steals a storm
the village is terrified when the pigs
all drown in the
lake the the woman is terrified who who
picked a miracle out of jesus'
pocket and the one thing that they're
not terrified of is we want you to be
Alexander or Caesar or one of these
that's that's what we that doesn't scare
us but
now he's showing them something that's
terrifying and their first instinct
is build a
palace of course it's their first
instinct it's what they've known all
along Jesus is going to begin an
enormous an enormous lesson that goes
through the ages of
unlearning what everyone in the world
assumes if you want to save your
life kill your
enemy H if you want to save your life
lose it for my sake well what does that
mean then a cloud appeared and covered
them aren't there clouds in Daniel 7 and
a voice came from the cloud this is my
son whom I love listen to him yeah yeah
but he doesn't seem to know how to do
it suddenly they looked around and they
saw and they no longer saw anyone with
them except Jesus shoot Moses and Elijah
and Jesus together boy
those three they could take on the world
now we're just back to Jesus who doesn't
seem to know how to do it and when we
try to correct them embarrasses us in
front of the
crowd now what's with the six
days this is from a commentary by
William
Lane the precise temporal reference 6
days is unusual in Mark and indicates
that the evangelists attached special
importance to this episode well I would
think yes high mountain bright light
yeah it's important six days appears to
refer back to the whole complex of
teaching which followed Peter's
affirmation of jesus' Messianic
dignity but complete wrongheadedness
about what Messiah
are and more particularly the solemn
promise of chapter nine the unveiling of
jesus' Glory in the presence of three
disciples corresponds to the assurance
that some will see the Transfiguration
is presented in the terminology of a
theophany God
shining which reveals the powerful
coming of the kingdom of God understood
in this light the precise time reference
of verse two recalls Exodus 24:16 where
6 days designates a time of preparation
for the reception of Revelation so in
other
words you think you know what that word
you're using
means you need to prepare and I'm going
to show you what it
means does it mean Jesus king of the
world
yes he told you the path to getting
there and that's what you've
rejected Mark evidently regarded jesus'
announcement of his approaching
suffering as the preparation required
for witnessing the disclosure of
Christ's true character in this way the
suffering and glorification of Jesus are
intimately Associated at the beginning
of the narrative as
close as at its
close close when Jesus speaks to the son
speaks of the son of man as an object of
contempt in
9:12 six days high mountain dazzling
white they're terrified that's the parts
that are consistent
let's build a
shelter not quite
sure what you want to
do let's put up three shelters we have
Moses Elijah and Jesus available which
could charge
admission that's not the path Peter
that's not the
path the path will be
surprising the path will be
unnerving the path will seem to be
absolutely the craziest
thing aren't would be Messiah regularly
crucified by
Romans now 2,000 years later you scratch
your head oh he talked about that Park
Bar hooka guy but yeah I don't I don't I
don't know I don't don't read
history now the Transfiguration I'm not
going to go in deeper partly because
there's something just kind of obvious
about it he's shining like the Sun at
least the Ancients would have got that
sometimes when you deconstruct things
they get less powerful rather than
more and at least at a certain level the
symbolism stuff sort of works on a level
that we don't understand why do we put
flowers on
graves what is that
about but we know it's the right thing
to do even if we don't know why Jesus is
shining like the
sun and we don't know what to do about
it
as they were coming down the mountain
Jesus gave them orders not to tell
anyone what they had seen until the son
of man had risen from the
dead now in the space of a few verses
that's the second time he said that and
again as I mentioned last week at least
in the the
sermon the the live sermon is always
different from the rough
draft nobody shows up at the tomb except
women who are preparing to embalm him
further
then they kept the matter to themselves
okay because they're not quite sure
what's going on still and they are
discussing what does he mean by rising
from the dead the the the dead the dead
thing no that's the that's the part that
we're taking
out you must take up your if you would
be my disciple you must take up your
cross and follow me cross my cross dead
no no no that's that's the part
Alexander dies and it's the end Caesar
dies and it's the end Romans kill
Messiah and when they die that's the
end Jesus says it's not going to be the
end with
me oh this is this is the most
confusing this is the most
confusing God man we've seen running
around in this world all the other ones
I can kind of figure out but this one
this one he's really
strange what do we think we want well we
call them
Gods but there have been lots of them
and and their enemies call them
murderers and
evil um they don't really change the
world they just sort of use the main
systems of the world to do what's always
done seems to be those human concerns
Jesus was talking about they just
administer the world under the same
rules as all the other
kingdoms get behind me
Satan isn't this how Satan administers
his
kingdom Jesus says there's a different
Kingdom this is from Justin brierley's
podcast talking about this cross take up
your cross and follow
me I mean there was almost nothing in
the Roman World more degrading than
being
crucified there's no way back from that
right it was known as punishment that
would be given to slaves and slaves were
essentially seen as non-p people there's
a famous piece of graffiti we found from
the ancient world called alexos graffiti
and it goes like this they like to
scribble things on the
wall that's not a new
thing it's actually it seems to be a
teenagers doodling and they doodle a
picture of a man on a cross with a
donkey's
head and then they have a stick figure
person standing next to it
saying Alexus worships his God H what do
you think that was about who do you
think they were trying to mock who do
you think why do you think they didn't
wear crosses around their neck why do
you think it's so shocking that Jesus
says take up your cross when you don't
even talk about this thing in polite
company alexam us worships his God and
we think that this is actually making
fun of
Christians to worship a crucified person
is as stupid at wor as worshiping a
donkey and yet these Christians believe
that this person was actually the center
of the UN unverse and that this person
has all power and authority in heaven
and on
Earth can you
see can you see how this changed the
world how all of our definitions have
been
changed by this man and his
cross if you would be my disciple take
up your cross yeah you get one too and
follow me whoever tries to save his life
will lose it but whoever loses his life
for my sake will find
it now there is something to Hero
Stories we do need rescue we do need
transformation we do need Community we
do need a legacy we do need to transform
the town around us we need we need all
of this hero stuff and Jesus is he's
both a hero and an
anti-hero because he's not Alexander and
he's not
Caesar but he is Lord Jesus is Lord
that's what they said it's the strangest
Story Ever Told how on Earth this could
happen and this is why people are still
trying to figure it out today Jesus is
our hero in a way and we must follow him
cross and
all because he changes heroism along
with changing Heaven and
Earth amen
