hi this is Paul and some of you will
recognize this woman she is Elizabeth
Oldfield and it was oh not too long ago
someone told me there's a ver VY talk
out there that you haven't watched yet
and I know it was a big deal and so then
I watched it and I thought this was the
best ver VY interview I've ever heard
and I met John about four years ago
because you know stuff that had happened
in my life when I started making videos
about Jordan Peterson and
um and but that was just such an
interview and then I listened to some
more of your interviews I listened to
your Pou interview and I thought oh I
and then you came up with this um you
came up with this quote in Justin
brierley's podcast which just oh my
goodness she's living my life can't
stand it I got to find out what's going
on over here here and what what led to
this so that's what we are going to do
this morning and um it's kind of
afternoon for me it's evening for you
but it comes out in the morning usually
so Elizabeth thank you for taking some
time to talk with me lovely to be here
all right well this is how I begin tell
me a little bit about yourself maybe
like the home you grew up
in I grew up in in uh we in England we
call them the home counties and I have
no idea why but they're basically the
counties that surround London in the
Southeast and when people say home
counties what they hear is something
quite safe and tame and not not sub not
quite Suburban because London doesn't
stretch out there far there's a lots of
Countryside but it's um yeah it's if
anyone is a Harry Potter reader I had a
friend come visit me me um when we were
adults we went to stay with my parents
house for the weekend to like gather
some friends and he walked he walked up
the steps and he said oh you grew up in
privet
drive and I said okay privet Drive is
this place where the dersley live in
Harry Potter which is the sort of
definition of Suburbia or rather small
town small village cookie cutter
houses um that kind of world uh which
was very safe and very
nice not particularly exciting and my
main sense um growing up there was
desire to see the world and desire to
have come from somewhere more wild you I
wanted to be Scottish or Irish or
something with some grit to it not from
a little village outside basing
Stak so what did your parents do for a
living my dad was a GP a general
practitioner I think family doctor is
commonly the understood term and my mom
raised us when we were little and then
went back to her work as a midwife and
then later on retrained as a health
visitor um I'm not sure what the the
they're amazing nurses or midwives who
were then specially trained to work with
young children with with infants and
mothers as they learned to breastfeed
and in those first couple of years of
life how many siblings just one just one
my younger brother yeah how how did your
parents
Meet The Story Goes they met over a um
coding patient on award as in you know
in in in resuscitating a patient uh my
they they met in hospital my mom was a
nurse my dad was a traine doctor my
nanny was the ward
matron very very Fierce
Cockney uh uh extremely authoritative
like lifelong nurse who had two of her
daughters working on the same ward as
her um and then yeah their eyes met
across a patient who I gathered didn't
die but you know I hoping they didn't
get too distracted there's just so many
American soap opera images that come to
mind with a young doctor and a young
nurse and their coding and their eyes
meet over this moment of emergency it's
that's great that's great yeah did you
go to church when you were
young a bit so my mom's family had no um
religious Faith or practice at all I
would say sort of lowlevel hostility in
a way there's quite
a patches of the sort British working
class I would say for several
Generations have felt very
disenfranchised by church not relevant
to them didn't want to be preached at
it's just like snobby snooty
place to be and that was my mom's
family's reaction to the idea
um my dad's came from a kind of
different background and was sent to the
kind of school where you went to Chapel
and so he had
more
uh inculcation in the sort of rituals
and rhythms of church
um but there was no there was no kind of
uh there was no discussion of it in the
home there was a brief per period in my
memory where we were taken to the local
Methodist Church essentially as free
child care so we were left in Sunday
school and then they went home from momy
and daddy time um which I knew full well
what it was by a certain age because
they were medical and they were very
Frank about these things
um but it was very boring and uh I now
can look back and through my adult eyes
see the beauty of a Congregation of old
women and think wow they must that the
stories they would have told these
faithful Prayer Warriors the time I was
a like snooty and dismiss submissive and
ages child and I was just like oh old
ladies I can see through their hair to
their scalp and I can't focus on what
they're saying
um um yeah so I wasn't I wasn't um
particular enamored or
connected I think there was then a gap
of several years but honestly none of us
really remember I've sort of gone back
to try and Stitch this this like bit of
my testimony together and not entirely
sure of the chronology but at some point
between deciding I didn't want to hang
out with a um older ladies at the
Methodist Church on my own while my
parents went home um and then being in
which I think was kind of six seven
eight
maybe when I must have been about 14 I
was then taken by a friend's youth group
to a a Christian festival and and there
had a very powerful uh charismatic
ecstatic experience which felt like the
beginning of something real and did
something take right then or was it kind
of an isolated experience that bore
fruit later no it was a real this is
this is the the world has changed around
me I have I have such a strong I've
tried to write about it a couple of
times and it's one of those real like
uh word is such a left hemispheric thing
right there's a there the the the the
the who is it I was reading talked about
trying to CCH capture God in a cage of
Concepts and every time I sort try and
Sidle up to what happened there and you
know my my kind of wrly ego is like I
can definitely describe this experience
is sort of just stops dead um so yes I
remember not being Christian before and
then standing up and being like oh well
I guess this is it then I guess so you
got mugged I guess I in yeah I really
did I and I prayed God if you're there
will you show me and it was
like yes I will what you ask
for yeah it was it was UN undeniably
answered in the most Dam dramatic
possible way um skeptic's naive prayer
yeah so what did your parents think of
this
I have no memory of what my dad uh
thought he was a GP so he was at work a
lot
um my mom took one look at my face and
said what the hell has happened to you
like as I I can see her standing in the
corner of my hallway I had all these
bags i' barely showered I must have been
absolutely wreaking from a week in a
field and she just took one look at my
face and was like what's different and
about some some point in the next six
months or a year could see the change in
me so distinctly that she decided she
wanted some of that so she then went on
an alpha course and had her own really
powerful conversion experience tell me a
little bit more about so you said A week
in a field um this a retreat or a camp
out or no it was a big Christian
Festival um big Youth Festival that like
various points of my story now is
shrouded with some sadness because there
has been a recent Scandal about the
leader of that Festival it was called
Soul Survivor and for a at least a
decade probably more it was a place
where lots of the people in my
generation who became Christians found a
lot of um life and joy and freedom I
think it was part of the sort of Van no
what you call it the Toronto blessing
wave oh yeah thing that hit the UK
Anglican churches and shook them up a
bit
um uh and it was you know you you took a
tent and then there
were there was a skate park where I
spent the entirety of the week before
the moment that I plucked up the courage
to to pray that prayer and you know
cafes and bands and all all the stuff
that you do to keep teenagers happy so
okay so you have this experience you
start going to church and what kind of
church initially the the Anglican Church
that was nearest
um that
was the the that was in it was in this
moment of
[Music]
um it's funny when you think about I
when I time to tell the story this both
are kind of very personal story and then
there's the years as a religion Think
Tank director and the the switching
between the sociological language and
the personal language sometimes feels
like um but uh yeah so we were you know
speaking in tongues and learning to
prophesy over each other and
um crying crying crying crying crying
crying I just cried so much that year
after I became a Christian and it was
really normal there was a there was a
woman called
um Ross she was an American woman what
was her name anyway she was very kind
and she used to make amazing Boston
potatoes and uh she she said uh oh I
just I just gave up honey I just wore
the tissues on a string around my
neck I was like
yeah so much emotion just about what
year was
this late 90s okay okay okay because
it's helpful because you know if you're
I've I I was in College and Seminary
during the 80s and then I was in foreign
missions until the late '90s and then I
returned to California and there's you
know obviously there's there's geography
and layers and so if you're if you're
swimming in broader Christian culture
it's kind of help to get a certain
contextualize so in the late 90s yeah
there was a lot of there's a lot of
interesting stuff roaring around
so oh okay so um let's get back to
uh University what did you study
English literature and history oh okay
where did you go to university I went to
York University which is a small
and cozy and delightful sort of small
City University in the north of England
and I went there because it was Delight
well had a great English and history
department and it was delightfully
unpretentious it was
really
uh welcoming and inclusive and everyone
called you duck Yorkshire people are
just delightful there's such a there
just such a spirit
of uh yeah I really for a long time I
tried to be a born again northerner I
was like I really want to be from here
not from where I'm
from I've been to I've been to England
twice and um the more I see the stranger
it all gets your little country yes it's
old New York it's literally where comes
from now um okay romance so you're a
young woman and I know that these
Christian Pentecostal youth things boy
they can be charged in terms of romance
um were you someone who es skewed it
were you falling for the uh the KE kid
strategy as young life used to say um
what was that about for you what that is
K bless are you well young life was was
a uh was a high school Ministry in the
United States that somebody somewhere
read a sociology book and figured out
that if the captain of the football team
became a Christian lots of other kids
would so you can sort of pump up your
stats in terms of conversions by um by
having the by focusing on the kids at
the top of the hierarchy and then the
other dominoes will fall how's that for
uh a hard bitten cynical Pastor
perspective at a uh p Amer par Church
Youth mission organization but there we
are oh dear Lord no luckily I swerved
that um I'm from America after all we do
religion big here you do it different um
no I think I sort of skipped the early
teens youth group because I wasn't in an
around church and then
um I I'm nearly six foot so there was
you know there was just wasn't there
wasn't an issue for quite a chunk of my
teens older men creepy older men yes
people are people are way shorter on
YouTube I get it all the time because
I'm Dutch so I'm quite tall and people
see me they're like oh so yeah all right
so that that that put you that put you
in University and you're studying
English and
history um what what did you do
career-wise after university did with
this with this with this big change and
transformation in your life where were
you just set on on you wanted to be
Ministry focused or were you going to go
out into the secular world what no okay
well I have never wanted to be Ministry
s focused really um no why
never not professionally okay say I want
I wanted my life to
be of some use uh for a different kind
of Kingdom but I don't know I
just at various points people say I are
you gonna be a Vicor and I'm like oh no
absolutely not um no so I when I was
growing up I was goingon to be Judy
Dench do you know who Judy Dench is yeah
yeah yeah so that that was literally
what I wanted to be I wanted to be a
National Treasure I wanted to be like an
amazing television and theater actor I
had five dance lessons a week three
drama lessons a week and um was all the
all the school plays and I did a
level theater studies um and so I was
going to go to university and get a
proper degree for my the sake of my
parents uh and then I was going to apply
to r that was my plan
um as I did loads of drama in my first
year of University and it was in loads
of plays and I had this very strong my
coming it's an incursion OCC shall I
pause do you not want your child seen on
a video I definitely don't want them
seen on video I will pause what was I
saying okay um you want to be Judy Dench
wanted to be Judy Dench yeah I did loads
of drama in my first year and got loads
of
Parts uh a sort of Campus
plays and could
feel my ego inflating and inflating and
inflating I loved it I was like walk
around campus you know oh I loved you
and that oh thank you so much just like
really not ready character-wise
for that ad what was a this is like
students right so but in your head when
you're a student it's the whole world
yes I I could I could just feel myself
changing and getting a bit more fake and
pretentious and aware of how I looked
I'd never like i' literally I'd always
cut my own hair before I'd never worn
makeup I was this proper tom boy and
then suddenly I was in this situation
where you looked at all the
time and I went away on a sort of Summer
mission trip with a um with a deel uh
faith-based development agency and just
had one of those real kind of Soul
moments of am I just going to spend my
life praning around performing for
compliments which is not what I think
about acting as vocation I think there
are there
like there there are ways that where
people have a genuine vocation and the
character for it and do it with great
integrity and it's a blessing to the
world but I was not ready to be one of
those
people at all um so I stopped acting
like Stone dead and I started directing
and I love directing because you got the
same kind of Ensemble feeling without me
being out there and it being about my
glory um
and I
was uh writing all these essays about
the kind of engine of culture and
literature and poetry and the historical
events that were happening at the time
and the way those two things work
together
um but for whatever reason you know I
was still reasonably recently into
church culture I had picked up that the
kind of jobs that Christian women did
were primary school teacher
nurse
mom like I wasn't even in like hardcore
conservative Evangelical churches but
there was something about there weren't
that many Role Models there was a really
strong sense of like the anything that
was very care like Mission work Ministry
or caring roles or what
were celebrated or high status or
whatever I was like oh no Lord I'm too
gobby for all of those but I guess you
know pick up my
cross I'll go I don't know serve the
poor or something I'm sure that's what
I'm supposed to be doing and um remember
lying in bed one night I've been writing
this essay about the stories that a
culture tells about itself and sort of
power of the media and the the power of
communication and storytelling to shape
the Norms of a moment I like there and I
prayed Lord I don't understand why you
wouldn't want me to be involved in these
things and it was another moment of
really feeling like I had a really
strong response and it was very much
like a cocked eyebrow like did I ever
say that I didn't I was like wait
what I'm allowed to go work over there
that was a real Turning
Point okay I want to I feel compelled to
say a make a note to my American
listeners about 50% of my um viewers on
YouTube are from the United States some
of my um I I have two good friends who
who live in the north of your country in
Bradford right now I met them when I was
a missionary in the Dominican Republic I
was living in a little town and they
were living in even a smaller town where
some very proper British gentlemen had a
little rescue mission for a tiny little
village there and these two came over
they were unmarried when they came over
and they were um already in love she had
been a Christian and and he had a very
interesting I won't tell his story here
or even name them because he's they've
actually become quite important in
certain circles in Christen Dum UK but
one of the things that I've noticed in
knowing them over the years and listen
listening to your story America
Christianity in
America and Great Britain are very have
very different valences in terms of
communities and um and even though
there's a lot of stuff that sort of goes
back and forth over the ocean um just
listening to you describe your story is
absolutely delightful and I'm just going
to warn American listeners to be careful
about sort of the the assumed background
you sort of paced her story onto to
because uh being a Christian the kind of
Christian that you clearly became in the
UK is a very different thing than being
that in a place like Louisiana or
Tennessee or even places in California
so yeah I mean I was going to church of
England churches this whole time you
know the local Parish Church where
everyone everywhere went at the you know
it was it was very much charismatic but
within the sort of sense of the
mainstream
establishment Church center of gravity
and did they didn't come with a lot of
the like that I think it's slightly on
the turn now but what you times about
the UK church is that it it it's
politically much more muddled up and
mixed and so you could adopt you know
what I was essentially sort of
Pentecostal Charismatic Christian and be
extremely um Pro welfare pro-immigration
you know there's a very strong strand of
that in the labor party you know the
labor party o owing more to method ISM
than marks is this classic line about
the kind of key leftwing party in the UK
um so yeah it's right to say some of
these signifies don't work the same way
here yeah it's it's also the truth that
and I I've also discovered in speaking
to friends of mine from the UK that
quite understandably most of your
impressions about American Christianity
tend to be filtered through the media
and the media's kind of a distorted
filter with ECT to religious and
political yeah everything so not in a
kind of like evil conspiracy way just oh
no it's just it's incentive structure
structure means that it gives a very
partial particular picture of everything
yeah and there have been many many
studies that have demonstrated that
people who go into journalism in the
United States hardly any of them have
any religious experience at all and so
the picture through which they view
religion in America is extremely warped
and limited so just want to say that
anyway back to the story so story so
which is relevant because then I went to
workit for the
BBC oh wow well that was just a
Providence uh the providential little
comment I made there I didn't even know
you went to work for the BBC how how why
did this come about and even the BBC to
Americans is kind of a confusing thing
because we think PBS but that's not
really
no it's the main it's the main media
center certainly you know um is where
everyone get certainly My Generation I
mean things have Diversified a lot since
but you know it's where everyone got
their radio it's where most people got
their TV it it's not it's not a sort of
politically and tribally pegged it gets
as much critic criticism from the left
for being politically skewed as it does
from the right um and I know CU I worked
through some of those postbacks while I
was there
um yeah so I having had this Epiphany
that it was all right for me to go and
try and be involved in the world of
ideas and the kind of world of the
stories that a culture tells about
itself I got up that night and applied
for an internship at women hour which is
the sort of Flagship feminist speech
radio program on Radio
4 it's very kind of stately and
dignified does not sort
of you know burn the barricades feminist
but sort of women's issues women's news
and
um went onto the campus the next day and
was so excited and said oh I've applied
for this internship at the BBC and every
single one of my friends went oh yeah
everyone applies for that no one gets it
I was like Oh I thought this was you
know Judy Dench thing now this yeah yeah
um and they said and if you want to get
if you want to get a radio internship
you should you should have been in the
student radio this whole time like
they're never going to take you
seriously because you've never done
student radio and then I got an email
two weeks later is saying like can you
start in a in a couple of weeks like
okay Lord like I guess I guess this is
where we're going and so yeah I worked
there five years on uh started I started
off in radio drama which is a very
wonderful and strange place and then in
television drama and then trying to make
a television drama about the
Bible at which place which point I had a
major Faith crisis and lost my
faith and then I was there for a few
more years oh now we got to hear about
this losing your faith what
happened I started reading the Bible
properly for the first time I had
um you know I had done some quiet times
and my quiet times had really focused
very hard on the nice bits you know the
devotional the devotional literature
really did encourage me to memorize very
hard that the Lord knew that the plans
he had for me and they were proser me
not to harm me but I had never cracked
open Chronicles um and
so yeah I had this very um nerdy
intellectually
curious uh part of myself navigating
through the BBC and the world of ideas
and then I had
this very
emotional very beautiful very relational
Faith but there was no connection
between those two parts of myself
and um I was assigned to be a researcher
on a program about the Bible and they
gave me one and two Chronicles and one
and two kings to become like a world
expert in soorry when you when you work
at the BBC you can ring up say h yeah
not not a world expert as in a scholar
but like enough of an expert to really
guide a couple of episodes of a TV drama
about it that's absolutely terrifying
but go on complet completely terrifying
I know and um everyone else I was
working with had like loads of theology
degrees
very experienced it was one of those
like very another sort of very strange
thing that I was there
um and I would ring these World experts
and be like hi I'm from the BBC please
tell me everything you know which is
what a researcher media does basically
they just like scoop out the brain of
clever people and
um and basically the key messages were
it never happened or if it did God is
genocidal it was just right y really
very brutal introduction to
Hebrew Bible scholarship
and I just didn't have anything I had no
foundations I had no Herman utic I had
no had no theology really I had nothing
I was just like oh I've built my whole
life on this terrible terrible
book like what is this and why is this
happening and it's not as nice as I
thought it was just just like crumbled
beneath my feet I it was such such a
bleak
lonely I'd moved to Manchester to work
work on it up there I didn't know anyone
I have any friends it rained all the
time was just was a really really hard
and dark time what did this do to your I
mean so so deconstruction as it's it's
now called the re it's now called I mean
it's I mean this this becomes sort of
a a dog fight on Twitter but it is it is
for many people an absolutely
devastating thing because you don't just
lose this story that you've been living
within you lose your friend at least in
your parent in your case your parents
were secular so um although your mother
sort of yeah so what on Earth what were
the consequences of this for
you I I didn't talk about it with a lot
of
people my friends weren't there
like looking back it was early it was
the early two early to mid 2000s um
which we call the naughties but I gather
you guys call the ORS which I don't
understand
um
uh I was really lonely I didn't talk to
many people about it I had I had I had
friends but they was most of them were
still in London I'd moved to London for
that internship and to work at the BBC
to begin with
and a lot of them were in church and I
think when you're riddled with doubts
you don't want to just dump your doubts
on onto other
people you feel sort
of sort of this horrible mix of like
contemptuous of them but also protective
of them
and somehow
marked and I hadn't yet made any new
friends
and I I was working with all these I was
my my main friendship group were my
colleagues who were lovely but that a
lot of them had already been through
this while they were doing theology
degrees at Oxford or Cambridge right
or just didn't you know I was the very
bouncy naive Evangelical and I didn't
want to look stupid I didn't want people
to realize I hadn't worked this out
before my mid
20s um
and yeah my I don't I must have talked
about it with my mom because I don't
really keep anything from my mom
but I think she probably just sort of
worried about me from
afar so so how did this change you're
working at the BBC how did this change
other parts of your life in terms of
your career I mean did you just sort of
then sort of just get absorbed into the
background of of
secularity no it didn't last very long
basically I was a very bad atheist I
really really tried hard
I was I'm just not cut out for it I
don't have the I don't like I have this
book coming out and I the the the the
line that was coming back to his like I
really I felt like I should admire the
kind of auster nobility of being able to
gaze into the void without flinching but
I flinched I was like and I honestly
don't it feels incredibly inhuman not to
flinch
[Laughter]
but this is this is so true because I
listen to some of these stories and I
listen to some of these deconstruction
stories and they're so sad because I I I
listen to these people or I talk to
these people and it's like you had a
rich life that you enjoyed and you
traded it for this and the only thing
you seem to the only thing you seem to
have kept out of the transaction is your
pride
yeah was was your pride really worth all
of this other loss and I I don't want to
minimize I think no and I do think you
what you said earlier was more
compassionate Paul like I don't I don't
think anyone chooses it I went I went
and talked to a bunch of um Welsh
pastors they asked me to go and give
them electron
deconstruction and the whole thing was
trying to move them
from basically angry about it yeah and
defensive and pissed off yeah because
people in deconstruction and I was can
be very like acting out of pain and
acting out of grief and lashing out yeah
and feeling like they've been fooled and
feeling cheated and also often
Christians are terrible engaging with
them and answering questions and taking
it seriously and they want them to just
put all the doubts back in the Box yep
yeah and so yeah I don't think anyone
would like I certainly felt like I could
not remain a whole person and not take
what I had discovered seriously right
like my identity will crack down the
middle if I don't find a way to take my
brain and apply it right to this thing
right
um yeah
it I I've lost my train of thought but
yes that's me in in defense of
deconstructionists I don't think anyone
actively chooses it and I don't I
don't I I honestly I feel very lucky
blessed that I was a bad atheist right
I couldn't I couldn't shake him off I
was just like go away I am
done it really felt like you know your
ex-boyfriend wouldn't let you go yeah I
was like no I'm done I'm done with you I
don't need you I'm too sophisticated for
this I'm too grown up or I want to be
you know like
I I this is this is for naive people you
know this is for emotional people this
is for uneducated people and I don't
want to be one of those and I'm going to
I'm going to walk away from this because
it makes no sense but I I couldn't I
like I would cycle around Manchester I'd
be like I don't believe in you no I mean
I don't believe in God stop talking to
me you're not real yeah yeah it's like
everything else fell apart all of the
structures my ability to go to church
read the Bible it all left but I I
didn't know how not to pray it's like
this is an ongoing conversation that my
soul is
having shut it down there's this amazing
poem um called Staying Power by Gan
Murray Walker have you ever read it
yeah you should put it in the show notes
it is amazing it is this real like
um she talks about like just trying to
smash a telephone just like the coils
are kind stop calling
me well you you asked um you you
mentioned on Twitter asking about this
little corner and and that that
has I'll just give you a little intro
into where how I got here so I I you
know I'm a pastor of a Dying church but
I've always been interested in things in
the middle of the of the ODS as we call
them I did a deep dive into Tim Keller
because I needed you know I needed some
things and so that led to two or three
hours of listening to Tim Keller stuff a
day and then by about
20134 I sort of cooled on Keller I sort
of started watching things happening in
my
denomination and then in in 2017 early
2017 Jordan Peterson comes across my
radar screen and it's like oh what's
what's going on here because I had
seen so many people friends family
people I knew through church walk away
from the faith and they'd either go down
the road of let's say new atheism or
down the road we in Northern California
sort of new age yoga this kind of thing
and everyone was going down that road
and leaving the church and nobody ever
came back down those roads and then
Jordan Peterson comes along and on the
internet I start seeing people coming
back down those roads and I had a
difficult time get finding other clergy
who wanted to talk about Jordan Peterson
because they're busy with churches they
don't have time to listen to two hours
of some Yi and ramble about the Bible on
the internet but I was listening to
and so and I was fascinated by it so I
thought I'd make a video because I was
doing a video with a member of my church
called the Freddy and Paul show and we
were doing that on YouTube so I can do
another video on YouTube about Jordan
Peterson what's the worst that could
happen I thought 20 or 30 people will
see it and I'll have two or three new
friends and that's all I need from it
and I was unprepared for what happened
and suddenly I remember sitting in my
house one day and my son is looking at
my subscri subcriber count and he's like
there's another one and another one and
another one and another one it's like
this is weird and then the email started
coming not only were they coming back
down the road they were coming back
wanting to talk to me and I didn't know
what I was going to talk about I just
had what I had and so and that thing has
sort of grown but in and and and sort of
affectionately around Jonathan Pou and
John Veri because very very quickly made
friends with Jonathan Pou and then
someone sort of connected me up to take
look at John Veri and then we did an
event together and so I mean so the
three of us have kind of been in this
and and then somebody says you know this
little corner of the internet it kind of
stuck and so we've got the ortho Bros
sort of following Pou and we've got sort
of the religious but not religious
people sort of following Veri and around
me tended to be oh an even Wilder group
of people because my spiritual my father
was a minister in a poor part of
Patterson New Jersey that he had the
spiritual ual gift of attracting know
Jesus attracted the demon possessed my
father and I we just attract the strange
and so and so then I after the mission
field I come here to Sacramento and the
same thing happens I mean it's homeless
people it's the most crazy diverse
church it's just wildness and then so
around me comes all of these people many
of whom are just in some phase of
deconstruction or Christ curious but and
the most and when I heard you make that
comment on to Justin brle on the thing I
I had I had so many people come up to me
and say I just I really want to be a
Christian but I just can't believe this
stuff what do I do and then on that
little question and answer where someone
actually who been listening to my stuff
you know and I've always said well if
you want to change your beliefs people
believe in herds you you adopt the
beliefs of the people around you so if
you want to adopt a new set of beliefs
go find the people people that believe
that and live with them and and then
you'll start to change but anyway
so so I you know and so I have many
friends and family or who are sort of in
this Twilight of deconstruction and and
a lot of Christians look at it as sort
of this collapse and it can be but in my
experience things needed to collapse for
often for some good reasons and God can
use that collapse to build something
even
better yeah
so so but but at the same time you know
it's it'd be nice if I mean Americans
especially want sort of a program where
okay you deconstructed here and you need
to do this and you'll come out of this
looking like this and it's like no I I
got no path for you you might be in this
thing for 50 years I'm sorry it's just
the way it goes God doesn't mind
arranging people's lives with decades
instead of moments so anyway I'm sorry
there's my sermon in the middle of this
uh this little talk but um it's all good
so no I give thanks for that time I
think it um stri back a lot that needed
stripping away
and that it was sort of a double
blessing I think not having been raised
in like a very churchy home and
therefore feeling like I came to it
fairly
fresh I just feel like I have had to
unlearn less than my friends who were
brought up in the you know were mic
Christians and then having gone through
deconstruction as it would now be called
I just give fewer FS I just have I have
like I kind of know what and I kind of
have two moments in my life where I sort
of know what it was to at least be
trying not to be following
Jesus
and it's not it's not
better and there like I always come back
to to whom else shall we go like I have
very low expectations about the
institutions of the
church uh but I love the church because
it's the bride of Christ but I don't
expect it to be anything other than
deeply dysfunctional and have very low
expectations about myself and the people
around me
but that sort of fine that feels like
part of the deal and I think having had
it all fall away and then find a way
back in really helps with that I'm not
clenched I feel reasonably relaxed that
I might go through it again like I
really hope that I feel this intimacy
and joy and the presence of God in my
life like I do in this season until the
day I die and I don't think there's any
reason not to but also you know valleys
and mountains Dark Nights of the soul
the contemplative and the mystical
Traditions tell us that this is all this
is sort part of the path yeah so you
clearly along the way um did a lot of
reading and learning about a lot of
things in the Christian world I mean you
couldn't do your podcast and your work
without that what was it was it this
deconstruction that brought that on for
you or is this just sort of stuff you
picked
up yeah that's so interesting I don't
think I've ever know that's not
something I was aware of as
a
I so the way back in was that a friend
asked me on an apologetics training
weekend because some someone had dropped
out and from from my old church and she
said it's okay don't have to come to any
of the sessions but it's just a weekend
in a nice hotel and you know it's
free I wanted to see my friends from
church from London I I felt I was so
lonely yeah and I went and it
was run by a wing of the Zacharias trust
connected to Ravi Zacharias this is what
I mean this is why I have incredibly low
incredibly low expectations Church
institutions literally the two key
points in my faith
Journey were in the consolation of men
who turned out to be bad news wow um but
the people on that weekend were not bad
news they were good news and they
were I was GNA say something incredibly
said I was like they were the British
version which really calms it down a
lot apologies all right you know I
really appreciate the time you gave me
and you're I know we're just going to
turn this off yeah my camera's sto
focusing I'm actually going to turn it
on off but you keep talking okay
um
uh I hope it turns on again oh there we
are okay good I didn't know if you're
coming back um yeah so they that the way
back in was was having to lay some
intellectual foundations and to think
about the ideas and think about the
claims and think about what on Earth is
this book and what are we doing here I
was really slow and long but
um yeah so partly was that kind of study
in that field just reading and thinking
about ideas for myself and then I went
on and did a Ms in theology as part of
that process theology in the art though
so my Systematic Theology is terrible
but I know a lot
about a lot about theological
Aesthetics
um yeah and then I think I married a
philosopher who met on that weekend um
Christian philosopher and we are
perfectly matched because we're both
massive nerds and I think probably a lot
of it is just we sort of suck in ideas
and then talk about them in bed and it's
deeply
erotic I knew I mean you're around
single Christians enough and the truth
is I mean you're you're opening up
religiously and you're there's people
that you're attract acted to around you
these things happen so um I I knew I
knew this was going to get into the
story somehow it always does it almost
always does so okay
so I don't know how far we are from
whatever it is that launched this
podcast which is how I found you I yeah
so was I'll I'll zip through the next
chapter um yeah so I that I was still at
the BBC at that time but beginning to be
restless and feeling like this early
sense of vocation actually about the
stories that a culture tells about
itself and the kind of
imaginative the plausibility structures
and the way they make it easier or
harder for people to conceive of the
possibility of divine love or to treat
each other as fully human um was coming
back to me and I had hoped to us do that
at BBC and I had felt like I had
contributed a bit but ultimately in
media you react you react to what's
happening you know you react to the news
you react to whoever's publishing a book
you react to whatever anniversary it is
it wouldn't let me make programs about
what is a good life um for no good
reason you you need a war and you need
to be CS Lewis to get the chance to do
that kind of stuff exactly and I worked
on programs like the mor maze which is
these very which is a very kind of
Flagship ethical discussion program but
even then like they want you to sort
of to get like nice clear views you
always find yourself going for the
people who have who are most extreme on
anything and finding the sort of messy
Middle where most of us sit doesn't
doesn't make good radio apparently
um
so I started looking around and praying
about what was next and then I ended up
being the director of um a small
Christian Think Tank called Theos um and
I ran that for 10 years and it grew and
we did interesting coms things and
increased our research and it sits in in
kind of the UK public conversation as
a kind of credible
intelligent um I hope I think it's just
right credible intelligent um kind of
open-minded but Christian voice in
conversations so it's um and
particularly working on things that you
know like last year was all about death
um Health immigration PE trying to
expand the idea of what we think of as
like religious issues and saying if you
have a vision for all of life if you
think that you know uh uh this this
faith has an impact for how we structure
Society at all levels not just on these
very neuralgic issues around Sex and
Death essentially um then we should have
something sane and kind and engaging to
say on these things so r that 10 years
um had two
babies came uh to 2016
2017 and the combo of the brexit
referendum and the
election of Donald Trump felt like a
interesting ner in our public
conversations and someone who pays a lot
of attention to the kind of cultural
atmosphere and the mure that we're in
and the stories that we're telling I was
just like this does not feel this does
not smell good you this does not feel
like this is helping us love our
neighbor this is not helping us
um serve the common good create a common
life where people can flourish
I didn't know how to help really but I
was missing making radio and so I was
working with a guy called Hussein at the
time who had come in from um he'd been
working for um oh what's the what's the
site that got that got really famous for
listicles huge online news site oh Buzz
BuzzFeed BuzzFeed he'd been covering
religion for
BuzzFeed uh because he was a Muslim they
were like yeah yeah for a while uh but
he because he was a Muslim they were
like Go cover terrorism and he was like
uh I think you'd find this issues a bit
more complicated than that so there's
more going on on the religion beaten
terrorism and I wonder why you want me
to cover
it yeah it was it was is there a Wonder
people sort of look at journalism
cynically and just think journalists
tend to be
shallow Oh yes certainly it is a
interesting formative atmosphere
um uh so came to us as a Christian Think
Tank and we like I really want to do
thoughtful things on religion and I'm a
Muslim and I and I was like let's make a
podcast um so uh we started interviewing
people about what was sacred to them all
different religions all different
backgrounds political uh
positions as a way of trying to model an
empathetic and curious and open
engagement across difference in public
life it is possible that this person
whose position that you hate is fully
human and if you listen to their story
in a very similar way as you're
doing they will stop being just a sort
two-dimensional representative of a
position and they will become someone
that even if you don't agree with you
will find it harder to
hate and it was really a peace building
project in Disguise I am very exercised
by the nonviolent peace building
tradition by Jesus's teaching about how
we're supposed to treat our neighbors
and our enemies um and that was in
2017 okay
is that is that the origin of this
sacred podcast that you've been doing
yeah yeah so the it's called The Sacred
because there is a a sociologist called
Scott atran who wrote a book called
talking to the enemy and uh did a lot of
work on situations of high poolar high
division um Israel Palestine being you
know key then and
now and he had this idea that most of
the time we F function according to the
sort of economic rational actor theory
that most of our decisions are you know
how do I maximize my comfort my
convenience you know but in situations
of high
polarization rational rational values
are not a play it's sacred values that
are a play and you know the difference
because if you offer someone money to
give up their sacred value they are less
likely to budge because they will feel
insulted and so the land becomes sacred
in the Israel Palestine yeah situation
but in the abortion debate yeah you know
the the San of human life or bodily
autonomy are functioning as these sacred
values that are not amenable to kind of
how do we how do we get us both to meet
you know how do we just work according
to our interests it's not about
interests um so the fact it was called
The Sacred was not really because we
were a religion Think Tank and I was a
Christian it was because I was trying to
get to deep values um but the fact that
we call we called it the sacred and we
asked people what's sacred to them did
create this kind of signaling to people
that it was a place where they could
talk about sacred things things of the
spirit
metaphysics comfortably and openly which
they proceeded to
do what have you learned doing this
podcast
thing everyone is
fascinating
[Laughter]
everybody You' almost think they had
they were made in the image of God the
way is fascinating as people can be yeah
yeah
and sometimes the people who you think
are going to be most boring and the most
interesting and if
you you know and it is the bit of me
that is a journalist and has a has a
soft spot for gists I I I Have You Ever
Seen The West Wing uh I've seen bits of
it I was never a devote there were some
people I knew that they they they lived
and died on that show yeah there's a
there's a character in that called CJ
who is both very tall and loves
journalist and I feel a lot of affinity
with her but from Judy Dench to the West
way okay keep going um I'm gonna be
really triggering some of your listeners
um but uh that's okay yeah the the the
power of attentive
listening and I I now do it in coaching
I have roles which are sort of akin to
chaplaincy I have always had that kind
of
pastoral leaning with
people the power of of of
curiously giving someone your attention
over time and asking the kind of
question questions that they might not
get asked every day which allows them to
open up thoughts that they might not
have consciously had
before it's just it's just magical it's
a it's the quietest things that are the
most powerful and I think that kind of
listening
is sort
of deeply deeply
transformational just become more and
more convinced of it over time yeah yeah
yeah yeah some therapists have figured
that out too and uh
it's you know it's I always thought it
was this pastor Jedi trick you know and
people are
like you know I I I would tell people
that you know what I do most of the time
is I just listen to people and they're
like no you you've got to be you know
giving them giving them the word you
know like like like the people coming
into my office are little birds and I'm
stuffing it in there and it's like all
you all they're going to do is choke um
you gota and and so that was that was
what immediately struck me when I opened
up your conversation with John it's like
oh oh they they know this
too and and because part of what had
sort of
become so it was very strange when
myself a dramatically um unimpressive uh
failure of a pastor you know as you know
America is all about big booming
churches and my church is dying so I
must clearly be doing something wrong
and and then when this YouTube channel
starts to take off and and and what I
and because people started writing to me
and so I started just doing this what
we're doing right now on zoom and I was
started to do it a lot and then I
noticed repetition so then I'd record it
like we're doing it now and then every
now and then I'd say could I share this
on my Channel people be okay and that
got attention because even though those
videos get the fewest
views people and and then we started
Discord server cuz I had a local meet up
and had some techies who were doing it
and then I noticed that people were
doing what I was doing because I had
been doing it so so this so basically
attentive
listening became sort of a core part of
our culture in this little
corner and so that's been interesting
and so that's why when I saw you doing I
thought oh oh someone else is doing that
make them stop that's our
thing like the unauthorized Exorcist of
the Gospel of Mark um but no
so where is this going for you are you
just happy doing
this I think so I'm not someone who has
fiveyear plans or strategies honestly
it's going to sound very Pious but I
tend to go are we is there something I
should be stopping or something I should
be starting and then listen
um you know it's I I am
surprised that we you know we iterate
and we've changed things editorially and
the quality's gone up and you know we
moved to YouTube not very long ago at
all so the fact there's Now videos of my
face is still something I'm quite
uncomfortable with but
the the heart of the thing hasn't really
changed at all and the fact that I'm not
bored of it I'm I'm easily bored um the
fact that I'm not not novelty seeking a
different project or to take it in a
completely different direction surprises
me but it feels like every time is a new
thing because it's a new person and it's
a new fragile beautiful world of meaning
that I get to just gently
invite out into the world and to help
people see and
hear how complex each individual is and
how fragile and how actually very often
the conclusions they've come to make
complete sense from they started and
what they've experienced and yeah yeah I
I I probably won't go forever but um
then the series that we have coming out
next I've enjoyed we've recorded about
half of it and I've enjoyed more than
ever and then after that we'll do a a
themed series that connects with the
book that I have coming out um which
will be will be a change and I'm excited
to see how that goes but then we'll pray
and see where it goes next and I have no
idea Paul is the it's a very longwinded
way of saying I have no idea but I'm
really enjoying it good good I don't
have a problem with that um what tell me
about the book it's called Fully Alive
tending to the soul in turbulent times I
have a proof let me get
it looks like
this um and
is out in May available for pre-order
and um it
is a very it's it's a very strange book
uh that I spent quite a lot of years
writing in my head and not thinking I
would be able to write because it
doesn't fit in any
genre that I know of but it is part
Memoir part personal
essay uh very much trying to make the
case for Christian spirituality
theological ideas for everybody else and
so I have so many contacts so many
friends who are um deep thinking seeking
meaning you know um asking questions
about how we build soety asking
questions about where the world is
headed desperate for places to sort of
steady their souls but we look anywhere
else it's just like Buddhism
Hinduism many of them taking lots and
lots of psychedelics some of which is
proving extremely missionally fruitful
which is interesting
um you know which isn't because I see
those too yeah or yeah there's very
complex environment of but fascinating
um you know anywhere yoga stoicism yeah
um not Christianity like it's just
somehow rule ruled out of ancient wisdom
yeah um and so I am trying to write a
book
that is accessible to people who have
some right and grounded nervousness
about the institutions of Christianity
who might be people who have dis
constructed deconstructed or people who
all they see is the sort of media
portrayals of the worst of the church
um but want wisdom and I'm so I'm trying
to translate across that divide and say
these are just like two Millennia of
deeply astute
psychological understanding of how
humans work and what we need and how we
change and let's not lock them in a
Dusty box and forget about them because
particularly now given the changes that
we're seeing in the world we are going
to need wisdom we are going to need the
things that can help us love our
neighbor over time we're going to need
the things that help us grow in virtue
we're going to need to actually grow up
our souls and not just be these like
passive puppets of media consumption and
stimuli
was good do you know who Jordan Hall is
Jordan Green Hall I don't think so
friend of John Veri um very much so
I I knew David Fuller Rebel wisdom that
whole Space yeah uh Jordan was on Rebel
wisdom just this morning I get on to
Twitter and people are all over me
Jordan Hall has become a Christian I
will after this I will send you the link
to the podcast where he tells about his
story and when you hear it it will be
like oh yes this is this is this is
what's happening in sort of an
intensified version so I'll send you
that link would you talk to
randos who are
randos I sort of know that this is
called randos but I still don't yeah
this is this is called randos because
well you were you were a rando to me
until you talked to John John Veri um my
my sense is is
in on YouTube and in the media we tend
to look to interview people who have
achieved a degree of
status um in one field or another and
that tends to be the consumption and
part of what for me makes this little
corner
special is
because um just like you said earlier
people are incredible and in almost
every case if you actually maybe with a
little bit of help because it's not
necessarily an easy thing to tell your
story and so kind of what I do with
people kind of help them you know look
over here look over there what was with
that um
because so much of our since once we had
these representational medias you know
newspaper and then radio and then
television the mass media and now
YouTube social
media these images are re-calibrating
everybody's worldviews in such subtle
and Powerful
ways and um so I don't know if uh I I I
don't know if you could I mean the
reason I can do it is because I'm the
pastor of a Dying church and I'm seven
years from retirement and I I remember
when I told my son he said should he was
doing a little political thing because I
got two kids that are in politics and
um and and he said well what about
YouTube I said don't go on YouTube
YouTube is a place for people with
little to lose
um sorry you have a you have a think TCH
you're doing it right I mean you've got
some stuff there but I I think there is
a there is real power in people's
stories and I know full well that if I
do a conversation with Jonathan Pau or
John
Veri you know people watching yeah if I
do a conversation with some random
person hardly anybody will click on it
but some will and what I what I sort of
learned watching so I'm a third
generational Minister watching my father
minister in a very poor part of a very
poor city um is that just like you said
people are amazing and there lives
matter to God and God sees them yeah and
so every now and then I really like it
if if if we can help people be seen and
um and in all their strangeness
sometimes so I guess that's just a
thought if you if you're ever sitting
around thinking who should we have on
here next yeah pick up a rando somewhere
and uh so i' I've of I've I've tried to
maintain a way that anybody can get on
my Channel or at least anybody can get a
conversation with me they might not get
on the channel but um almost everyone
does so anyway so that's just a
thought why why don't they that's just
me being no why don't they what is it
because something in the conversation
feels too private for them to put up or
that's usually the reason because we
start talking and they have to talk
about how they've been hurt and what
their parents did or what an ex spouse
did or something like that it's too it
doesn't belong on YouTu so actually I
started a membership section because
I've got other people and there's a
veence between men and women in this
too um
because it's it's just different for
women on YouTube than it is for men it's
different for women in the public eye in
general exactly so so I started sort of
a a a very low priced membership section
because I had a number of women who
wanted to participate but they're like I
don't want to be out out there on the
open internet and I said I don't blame
you so then we tend to have them it's
it's amazing what $3 will uh keep
people how $3 can keep people out um but
anyway so it's no rand's conversation
it's generally because we're talking
about other people and so then it's much
more of something that happens in a
pastor's office and that's where we keep
it but if the conversation is something
that it's okay to share and the person
is willing to risk it because there is
risk
involved then we share it with the
channel and again they get the least
clicks but those who follow it closely
and and then what has happened
is so I just did a conversation with
Jonathan Pou and he says we're not
trying to start a community I did a
conversation with uh John Veri he said
we're not trying to start a community
and it's like that's the fun part for me
I am a pastor and so one of the things
you learn in church is that someone
comes into the church they see the
pastor you preach a sermon or something
or you're kind to them and they're like
there's my new best friend and it's like
I'm the pastor I can't really be your
new best friend so sort of like don't
fall in love with your therapist um I
will be your friend but the the whole
handoff that happens in church is you
need to be wed to Christ and his body
and that means you need to have be a
part of a network of relationships with
one
another and that is what has grown and
it's happened through YouTube and
in-person meetings and this other thing
that I started called Estuary which is
basically a church adjacent
conversational platform where people can
actually sit in a room and talk with
people that are different from
themselves in kind of a structured
productive way and so I'm trying to get
pastors to sort of open up spaces like
that in their churches so anyway so th
that's what I've been working on but um
there's real power
there are so many lonely people out
there and if you're I I I started to
recognize this when years before I I had
a little podcast where I'd put my
sermons on and then I would get and then
I would get approached by people who you
could rightly call them recluses they
lived in their house they looked at
their
screens relationships with their family
were tense or
non-existent and they had hardly any
friends and that used to be older people
and now I'm seeing it in younger
people and so what a lot
of my goal has been has been okay we're
going to start on a
screen but then we're going to walk
outside the door and we're going to go
to a place and we're going to meet
people in person and a lot of people
don't realize people who have had good
upbringings that that having a
conversation is a skill you're going to
need to learn it you're going to need to
figure out the back and forth there's a
lot more people on the autism spectrum
out there they're struggling with some
of these things but
it's if and actually it was
amazing if if we have any hope of
getting through the kind of
polarized destructive World we're
creating now it's going to have to be
because people can have conversations
with one another that that they're very
different from and learn friendship
because you will not live in this you
will not live in this world if you can't
have a friend and so many people don't
have even
one so anyway so that's that's that's
what I care about and so if if I can
create a community
using this crazy medium I will do it it
and so that's what I'm
doing you're doing what you trained to
do yeah I'm a pastor so well we are
coming to the end and it's it's it's
midday here in Sacramento but it's late
night for a busy mother and um so I
don't know anything else you want to say
or do or pitch or ask or anything like
that no I think we should end it on what
you just said because it's beautiful and
profound thank
you and yes if you haven't found the
sacred I'll put a link below and it's in
podcast longer and so if you want to I
mean a lot of people listening to me the
Veri you talk to in the go you got Nick
Cave I a lot of people around are like
how you know I I can't get Nick Cave to
talk to me you got Nick Cave good for
you so um but they've got a wealth of
things and I you know the reason I do
these conversations like I do is because
just like you said
perfectly if I got you on here to talk
about all of your ideas and you're kind
of a sock puppet talking about ideas and
nobody's going to care about your ideas
until they have some till they care
about you and the only way they're
actually going to care about you is if
usually once we go through your story
they will find something in your story
that connects with them
and then oh well I might not agree with
her I might not be a Christian I might
think it's all hogwash but she's a real
life human being yeah there's another
thing I realized I've been doing
intuitively which is if you get people
talking about their
childhood The Listener imagines them as
a child and then they're immediately
less threatening and you feel a
protectiveness I think to most people
when they talk about their childhood and
it then lowers that
uh fight or flight threat reaction that
we get to people that are different from
ourselves and it allows them to really
hear them in a way that they might not
if you go straight in with their big
fancy job when they were in their 20s
yeah yep y anyway Elizabeth you have um
I hope you have a a restful evening with
your husband I hope your children stay
in
bed so do
I and thank you so much for this I'll
probably clip it a little and then put
it out next week or so it's been a joy
Paul thank you so much for having me on
to talk to you all right have a good
evening bye bye God bless you God bless
you what do you want me to say a prayer
for you I'd love you too I do that
y Lord you are a good
God and we are we are such we are people
that are so full of ourselves and we we
run around this world thinking we're
gods and we're in charge and we can run
things and things are a mess but if only
everyone would listen to us it would be
fixed and so many of our problems are
the result of our past Fixit
efforts Lord what a what a joy it was
for me to discover Elizabeth and her
podcast to discover someone in a
different part of the world world doing
something very much like what I am doing
and
realizing very much the same needs that
I saw and Lord I believe it's
because um we met your
son and we saw something in your son
that we didn't see anywhere
else and that Son of God came to this
world to rescue us from ourselves and
Lord we are sheep and we do go astray
and you are the Good Shepherd and I pray
Lord that you bless Elizabeth I pray
that you bless her Think Tank I pray
that you bless her marriage I pray that
you bless her children and Lord it's
it's very clear that um yeah you've had
your hand on her for a long time now and
you will bring to completion the good
work that you've started so I pray Lord
that you give her the best desires of
her heart and that you you bless her
work richly hear my prayer in the name
of Jesus amen
amen can I pray for you
absolutely well thank you for Paul thank
you for this brother on the other side
of the
world bless his pastor's heart
blesses openness to the wind of the
spirit and where it's led
him I pray God that
um
just want to hold with a question mark
this line he uses about a dying
church I don't think he's pastoring a
dying
church is pastoring a body that is in
many different
places your bride is so beautiful and so
bruised pray you strength and P as
he leads and tends and wants to be a
good shepherd like you are a good
shepherd to
us would you give him even more
integrity and humility and courage would
you give us both those things
Lord keep us from ego in these places
and these platforms that want to feed
our
egos keep us from busyness keep us from
hurry let us attend to your voice and
turn our attention to your
cross I do pray you'd use us richly in
Jesus name amen
amen thank you very much I appreciate
it thank you I'm sure we'll talk again I
suspect we will take care have a good
evening day bye bye
