this is your immediate life and so I'm
going to build a a hierarchical
structure so let's say something happens
let's say
your your son got married you're you're
engaged in that right you're interested
yeah okay but you're obviously right
because the the degree of separation
here is very small like it's very
relevant to you in an immediate way yeah
okay now it might be something more
distant maybe the
his wife's sister something happened
there now he's still going to be
interested but but less so and then if
it's if I tell
you John love ktz just had a child you
don't really care about that right don't
know who he is no right exactly yeah I
just I just made it up but what happens
if something that's completely foreign
to you how how do you get something
that's completely foreign to you if if
something that's completely foreign to
you engages for example you watch Better
Call Saul right and you don't know any
of these people they're not
even they're fictional
characters but there's something there
that engages you right
so what I would posit is that the
further away it
is the deeper in terms of your internal
mechanisms you have to go in order for
it to be relevant so yes actually being
engaged in something that's that's on
the surface completely foreign is a sign
that is that it is very uh profound y
yeah okay good so that's that's what I
wanted to share then no I think that's
very true and and so then these
structures so if you were to tell me
that whatever this dude's name was is a
pro wrestler well that would go that
would go into this
conversation but when let's say okay so
a current example that King Charles has
has cancer has cancer oh okay well now
we're going deep and he's not even my
king I mean the whole American
Revolution but Americans still follow
him and then Pope
Francis you know there's all this drama
around the pope and it's like I'm
Protestant I'm American I'm not
connected to Charles I'm not connected
to the pope oh but you know and so then
and then someone comes along and says
I've got proof Martin Luther was gay and
I boom you know now suddenly no you're
exactly right that where I think that's
an excellent
observation good so
so so then the next thing is going to be
related to migil Christ which
is why we have a Corpus of of stories
that is at the base of of our culture of
both of our cultures and why is it a
story so is think of of because you have
essentially two ways of representing
ideas one is a story the other is a
model an abstraction so what I just did
for example was a model with the points
and the the
lines
and what's what's the difference between
them what what are they so here's my
thinging on it right now actually I'm
reading mcgilchrist's book I've been
listening to him for a while but I'm
reading his book also because it's going
to play into my PhD probably as work
and essentially stories are the master
brain the right brain way of
representing reality whereas models are
left brain
and a good model is going to be actually
immune to interpretation the point of a
model is to decontextualize it in such a
a way that there is nothing there left
to misconstrue a model is aimed to
distill a specific idea in a specific
way it's a a freezing in time of of a
concept and taking it outside of of
any yeah any grounding
yep and and it to it's to you know in my
language it's to raise it up it it gets
it up off the ground and so it's it's
Transcendent it's Universal
in some that's the hope of it but then
there will be issues even if yeah so
even if it
is it might be Universal but it's not
not everyone is going to to either
understand it or be able to it's not
transc right is where I'm going with
this and stories are a story
is a representation of actually how we
perceive the
world
and because our cultural stories
so so stories are transcave
and because the stories that we're
talking about at that the the Bedrock of
our culture are profound because of how
the stories that are profound manag to
survive across time and the the
evolution of
religion and all that stuff then
because these are profound stories no
matter how distant you find
them you should be able to connect with
them on some level based on what I the
model that I just gave if it's if it's
correct so because we have deep even
just the
physicality because you know this
personhood I mean all there's there's
super deep reasons why even in this
model we can connect with stories yep
tracking
yeah so
so so these stories because they they
can
touch the deepest recesses of our minds
or souls or whatever it doesn't matter
how distant they are to any one
individual there's always something
there to to grab on to and also stories
they're not a distillation so they have
a lot of
what could for some reason would just be
noise but there they have a lot of
distinct parts and and this allows for
much broader relevance realization much
more encompassing so for for me if I
watch a show I can identify with one
part and completely ignore another part
which is like the time of day or or the
day of the week and for some people
maybe that will hold some significance
whereas something I'm interested in
wouldn't uh so story has a lot
of different parts that uh that can
serve as as a basis for
for for connection and understanding and
and and then then you can have a culture
that's based on the same stories and
everyone agrees that it should be based
on those same stories so there's like I
I wrote here a story allows for a
generalizable hypers specificity so
everyone anyone can find their own very
specific uh situation in in a good story
yeah
yep okay it's it's also important to
recognize while we're being meta here
that what we are doing is modeling
story yep which is what I just just did
earlier yeah yeah and and so you know I
just there was just a there was just a
live stream with a somebody who's kind
of made a little name for himself at the
moment moment as a skeptic in the corner
again and he it it was so interesting
because once you begin to once you begin
to recognize the elements of this model
and you hear people talk it's like oh
yeah I just want Clarity okay and and
you begin to notice that okay I I just
want this I I I'm looking I'm really
frustrated with let's say wrestling
again I'm really frustrated with
wrestling because it doesn't fit the it
isn't a model well that's right
wrestling is not a
model you can learn you can derive some
models from it you can learn about
models through it but the fact that it
isn't a
model and so if you become a dogmatist
with respect to models you can't
actually live in
models because and they're not
transc exactly exactly and
and I would absolutely put stories above
models in the hierarchy if only for the
fact so to talk to someone like that the
reason would be that it's much easier to
take a story and create a compelling
story and create a compelling model from
that story and you can think of of
literature analysis then it would be the
other way around right you can't just
take a model and okay craft a compelling
story around that model right it was
funny when you know for a while P was
talking about story and people people
are like okay I'm going to take the
model of an archetype I'm going to craft
a story around it and those always make
terrible
stories yeah that's that's my experience
as well you you can tell when a story is
aimed to to transmit a specific model
where compared to when it's it's organic
yeah that's why Christian movies are
often so terrible because certain
Christianity you know especially in
protestantism well here's the model so
let's make a story that you know
perpetuates the model it's usually a
terrible
story yep
