hi this is Paul and this is what I know
as food truck Emily from
Twitter she um started I don't know when
well let's let let's when did you first
find me in this corner you talked a a
little bit of that in your introduction
video um it was sometime this year I was
you actually you
know so J uh Jonathan Pou had started
talking About That Hideous Strength a so
I went back and like read the
trilogy and I had already been like
reworking through all of CS Lewis stuff
and so but I didn't have anyone to talk
to about it and I harassed everybody I
know trying to start like some kind of
book club or something and it just
didn't take so I scoured all the
podcasts looking for something and then
I got on YouTube and I saw your video
and at first I you know because it
wasn't like high quality video or
anything um but then when you but then
you'd start
talking we were talking about CS Lewis I
was like you could just tell you were
you were drawing in from a lot of
different things and I was like okay I I
like this guy well then YouTube started
serving me up more of your videos and I
was like oh he listens to the same
people I've been listening to and so I
started listening but I as soon as I
discovered you had audio form only I I
went over to podcast yeah and I just
didn't take the time to stop and realize
that because you'd be mentioning people
that had no idea who they were you know
um like people within the the corner and
so finally I just got curious enough
that I went over to actual
YouTube and um I think I made like one
comment on something and then you
actually responded and I was like oh
there's an actual person there and and
um yeah and then I just got like kind of
addicted I
guess how did you find
Pou um yeah through Jordan Peterson okay
and you know what's kind of interesting
is the first time I heard Pou I was so
put off by him because it was this
episode where Jordan was in was
clearly in just deep spiritual pain over
his physical pain yeah and I was so
underwhelmed by his responses and I was
like that's what a Christian has to tell
somebody about their human suffering and
so at first I didn't care for him but
then over time I you know I started
listening to him here and there too you
know okay well let's let's get let's get
down to business now you've already sort
of made a a little splash yet you didn't
make a huge Splash which is interesting
I I'm always because the corner is I I
think about the corner as sort of a
conscious entity and um so it's just
interesting to see how things happen in
it because nobody is controlling it
really contrary to uh some people's
imaginations so let's go all the way
back and let's do this rando's thing
properly uh tell me about the home you
grew up
in oh
well by the time I was born my parents
are actually missionaries in Mexico oh
um but they got kicked out of the
ministry and it completely turned my
family's life upside down oh and so my
parents had been um converts out of like
the Jesus movement so like your whole
thing about that movie I found really
interesting because I recognize so much
out of that story yeah so um it was
really more like a power thing within
the ministry I think there was an
insecurity in the authority and in the
leadership and so these some of these
young guys who there was a lot going on
with them my dad is a very um he's one
of those he's like you he reminds me
like you but only introvert so everyone
was opening up to him and coming to him
with their problems and I think they
felt his influence was too much I I
don't know he wasn't doing anything bad
you know yeah but um they ended up
sending him off to Mexico maybe to I
don't know the full story but maybe to
get him away from you know the group
okay and then he he kind of describes
that the leadership flew down and
interrogated him in the hotel room on
his theology he's a young believer at
that point and then
end they decided that because he doesn't
speak in tongues and that he must not
have the Holy Spirit or I I don't know
what so they just they kicked him out
and so here they were you know they're
from Southern Illinois where the only
jobs are coal mining and farming my dad
was a coal miner and my mom had been the
daughter of a
farmer but my dad's actually was a
musician and in a rock and roll band so
but that was the only work available so
here they are in Texas in no Market
skills three little kids um no Community
their entire lives fell apart so my
first memories of childhood where of
just my mother having a complete
breakdown in the middle of a store
that's my very first memory was of my
mom just breaking down staring at a
shelf and probably she couldn't afford
what was on the Shelf I just imagined
that was it yeah um and so there was a
real scramble to find work and um by the
time I was four they decided that my dad
should become a truck driver so he was
gone all the time except for one or two
days out of the month and he was putting
my mom through school so she's working
and going to school so you know I'm
maybe a typical lower yeah
income story of like the kids are kind
of left to their own latch key kids in
the
80s and we just wandered around a lot my
older sister took care of us um she was
very much the the nurturing mother kind
and she was like really into literature
and poetry and theater so that was kind
of like a lot of my influence then um
and then you know without I'd say the
protection of a father figure in the
home uh I became very easy pray to my my
best friend's dad my nextd door neighbor
he ended up being a
pedophile um and so that was like a
really bad start I'd say was in the
middle of all this like falling apart of
all the like Community spiritual like
everything happening in our family just
there was just this pervasive loneliness
that I felt like got exploited you know
yeah and uh more than just the abuse
itself I think the whole thing was
traumatic and back then I don't think I
don't think they did a good job with
kids um you know in counseling and stuff
like that my mom was afraid to even talk
about it that she'd make it worse and
yeah I just had this deep sense of shame
that I can't even describe like it was
uh I felt 100% like it was my fault yeah
and I would say too that's when I became
really fixated on the idea of God
actually um my family wasn't at this
point my dad was super cynical couldn't
even talk about God
anymore and that that lasted for a good
seven years and my mom was trying to
kind of hold it together in a in a sense
like occasionally taking church if she
could manage U there was just nothing
real going on there and I just felt this
desperation for God to save me and I
didn't even know who God was or what
that meant yeah um so I had a real rough
time in school was I was very sick all
the time like I mean it was now I know
it's anxiety yeah I was vomiting every
morning before school um I with I
couldn't manage relationships with other
kids the teachers didn't like me I was
weird as like weird um I just I
remember actually standing in a hallway
in elementary school and just and I
think I would sort of like dissociate a
little bit you know and just looking at
all around me and just thinking I'm not
like anybody anymore you know um the
whole police police involvement was very
traumatizing the the whole the year that
the whole Court situation happened I
don't even I don't remember that entire
year pretty much yeah so I must have
just like blocked all of that out um so
yeah um I think so somewhere around
middle school so I
had like I said just that shame that I
could not shake and then I had a very
bad relationship with my mother it was
very much
um felt like couldn't do anything right
kind of situation yeah and she's
probably very anyr one I I think I don't
know if that means anything to you I
I've never done the dive into the Ingram
stuff so well that's for another day I'm
not like in the INR cult or whatever but
it's it's helpful sometimes um very much
rules and not a lot of emotion there
wasn't like a lot of feeling of
connection and that comes a lot from her
side of the I mean all the generations
in my family are messed up unfortunately
um yeah just not knowing how to handle
stuff and uh anyway I I started you know
self mutilating and just started
obsessing over um it's not like I was
suicidal but it was on my mind all the
time of
that like how long do I have to do this
you know how long is this life going to
be and I felt desperate to get out and I
couldn't really imagine it being
better so um I prayed all the time I
remember just pretty much every night
and I felt like if I didn't pray pray
like I would wake up in the middle of
the night to pray because I was afraid
if I wasn't doing it all perfectly that
God wouldn't look at me or wouldn't save
me and I didn't even know what all that
meant you know and then with my par my
dad finally quit truck driving and he
had another like whole life turnaround
came back to Faith um and they started
going to church and so here I've never
really been really in a community of
church and stuff and um and it's the
first time I really started looking at
the Bible and you might get a kick out
of this though because the you know the
thing during that time was Calvinism
versus
arminianism I just remember coming into
youth group and the pastor was
constantly like drilling into us that
we're we're saved and we can't lose our
salvation and I'm just looking around at
all these kids who've got I don't know I
thought they had bad bad character I'm
like why do you keep telling us that
we're
safe I actually started reading the
Bible because I wanted to argue with him
and and I just remember him pulling me
aside one day and just saying you know
Emily you're just really
abrasive and um I love him to this day
like I still I'm still friends with him
but he wasn't he was not wrong I
was I was like this 12-year-old lawyer
that came I mean I came with my receipts
I came prepared I had a notebook full of
all the scriptures I had found to say
that it's not I don't know um and then
when I was around 14 or 15 we got a call
to my house and I remember where I was
standing when this happened it was a
woman
from sorry a woman from our church and
she was she was a missionary from South
Africa and she had called and asked to
speak with me and I remember my dad
coming into the room with the phone and
saying this woman from church wants to
talk to you and she was in her 20s so
she was actually young um so I'm like
okay I answered the phone and she Saidi
know this is really strange and I don't
know how to explain this to you but
every single time I've gone to pray for
weeks now all I see is you and she said
I don't know what it means but can we
spend some time together and of
course no one not my parents no one
knowing what I was going through yeah um
I still get emotional when I think about
this because
I was so lonely and so in so much pain
and it was the first time that I
realized like God God sees me he knows
that I exist like he's maybe he's heard
me crying out to him and so I started
hanging out with she just brought me
into this little like community of young
people from wamh so she was from yam and
it was this little group of Misfits I
swear like from all over and a lot of
people mixed in were doing school of the
Bible so there was just this really
beautiful group of people that just
loved on me where I was and I I went to
on and during the summer to like one of
their like I don't know if it was like a
monthlong thing and then you go to
Mexico for like Outreach and before you
go it's like they're doing all the
teachings and you know seeing where all
the kids are and Spiritual Development
stuff and I just felt
like I'm waiting for something to happen
you know yeah when's this thing going to
happen and like when am I going to be
saved like I didn't you know what I mean
I had this idea
and there was one night where they were
really like they were really like
leaning into the cross like they were
you know going into gory detail and
every and all these kids I just remember
I'm in the back of the room all these
kids are like crying and wailing and
like having this big emotional
experience
and I just remember thinking wow okay
like I must be really
bad um and I had this idea that you
could be Beyond saving like you've
sinned Beyond repentance like I don't
even know where I learned that verse but
I had it in my
head probably probably when I was doing
all that research
for that's right and so I had this idea
in my head that I've I'm that bad and
nothing's going to happen for me and
like um I was devastated and that night
I went and I got in my in my cabin and I
I got in my bed and I put the covers
over my head I got on my
face and I cried out to God that either
save me or let me go because I can't
live the rest of my life like this and
if you're not going to save me then yeah
I just don't want to do it and I had
already kind of had an idea of like when
I thought I was going to give like a
Time lines like something needs to
happen or I did want to you know I don't
even want to say it but um and I don't
know how to describe it but since Martin
Shaw could talk about it and be weird
about it I will be too good
because what I experienced in that
moment was nothing I've hardly ever
experienced since and that's like almost
like a it wasn't a voice but it was like
it was not my own knowledge something
just divinely downloading into my mind
and it was okay it was like okay you
want to do this well that's not what it
is that emotion stuff is not what it is
this is and clear as day this is a
marriage this is a covenant this is
something that we're faithful to even
when those emotions aren't there and
then also immediately was like and you
need to confess and I was like
and I it was everything was right there
like everything that I needed to confess
and it was bring everything that you're
hiding in the darkness into the
light and so all of all of that
self-loathing even about the self
mutilating which I was I was humiliated
even that I had that problem um the
anger and the rage I had toward
Authority like toward my mom especially
at that time um that I needed to confess
it in front of all these people that I'd
only met a few weeks before and so I did
um and I was shaking I mean I was just I
was had such bad social so this wasn't
just confessing under the covers this
was confessing to people no very
explicitly like I was being told to take
this from the darkness into the light
and that this involved me standing in
front of people and speaking it out um
and that's I was so terrified but I was
also so desperate that it seemed like
the right thing to do yeah and I did did
and I feel really lucky because there
were some very mature
older um leaders
around and I stood up and I especially
saying out loud like the stuff from my
childhood and like that abuse which I
was humiliated by yeah um and it's like
as soon as I finished I erupted in
prayer I had probably never prayed in
front of people in my life either and I
felt literally a physical weight come
off of my body and they immediately
surrounded me and they like all these
leaders and they prayed with me and um
and I can tell you from that time
on it was like a switch happened in me I
was a completely different
person I I suddenly could understand the
Bible for the first time I was all I
wanted to do was understand or know God
um every book off of my dad's shelf I
just started picking up and reading and
I mean even at one point I was 16 years
old carrying around Charles finny's
Systematic Theology and like this High
School caring I'm like what was I doing
but my biggest thing was like I knew I
experientially had something had
happened but I couldn't understand what
it was so all I really I was reading
about like atonement and um
sanctification and you know and it
wasn't too long after that that it's
like yeah the actual problems of the
faith come up that you
need answers for yeah um so at this
point I'm in high school I've had a
horrible time all through school
socially and everything I was eating
lunch in the bathrooms and I didn't
connect this until recently too just how
providential this was but another person
called and offered me a spot at this
private school because I was a musician
and they were trying to build up their
music program and it was a school we
never would have been able B to afford
or anything but I went from being like
lost in the sea of children at this
massive public school to being very seen
and exposed and having like all my
papers which I was a great I thought I
was a great student made really great
grades without trying and then suddenly
people are like scrutinizing my work um
turns out I couldn't write my papers off
of Spark Notes anymore um but the
quality of the education at the new
place was like this is where this was
what leveled me up and um to a degree is
that the stuff they were reading was
Tolstoy and uh Augustine dovi yeah these
three
particular blew my mind when I read
Crime and
Punishment I felt like I was
understanding myself I was like his his
insight into the human psyche is just
yeah amazing um and then a older friend
was like well if you like that you'd
like kard and again I'm I don't even
know hardly what I'm reading but this is
kind of stuff that I was like I was just
insatiable I was an Avid Reader and
could not get enough it's all I wanted
to talk about it's all I wanted to do
you know um and even though all my peers
were going to college I felt like
absolutely could not because all I
wanted to know was truth and I didn't
really even know what that meant I
realized
that the culture around me um I felt
like I needed to figure out who I was
and who God was outside of my culture my
identity and all that stuff and I picked
what I thought was the furthest away
from that was like I'm G to go to the
motherland I'm gonna go to Africa so I
joined ywam and went to Africa and I did
their discipleship training school um in
South Africa and mosm Beek and that was
wild um but that experience for
me was so
humbling because I had gone you know
where you I was very well spoken I could
I you know could talk theology I could
do all these things um but when rubber
hit the mo the road and I'm here I've
never
witnessed that level of Despair and
poverty in my life yeah um and I had no
context in my understanding of God my
view of God and my understanding of the
Gospel I had no context for that because
I had this like Western idea like you're
going to do all these great things for
God and you're gonna it's self agonizing
yeah but we were going to these
townships where pretty much everyone had
AIDS they're living in like cardboard
houses they I remember this one home
this was this one particularly wrecked
me because we go into this home and
there are so many orphan children
because all the parents had died of AIDS
and there's just man we're bringing
groceries to him and we're going to pray
for him he's writhing on the ground in
pain on a dirt floor and the only thing
I'm thinking is he doesn't even have a
TV to watch he doesn't have medicine he
doesn't have anything to take his mind
off of his pain yeah and I'm like what
the hell am I doing here telling him
about the what is the gospel to a man
that's dying like this yeah and what
kind of prayer am I going to pray yeah
that means anything and I think there
was like three days I could hardly get
out of bed after that um I I nearly went
home after that experience because I
just thought I am just a stupid kid and
I have no answers I can't even fix my
own problems what am I doing um so I I'd
been kind of aranged for my brother at
this time but um we started connecting
over email um I guess he was like what's
my sister doing in Africa maybe she's
interesting so we started talking oh um
age difference between you and your
brother three years okay yeah um
brilliant brilliant guy um it's funny
you were talking to somebody recently
about like no no yeah you encouraged one
guy in Rando to go to Germany to study
it's one of the things that my brother
did too um anyway and he was like well
if you don't have anywhere to go after
Africa you're welcome to come to Austin
you know and he was going to try and
help me get a job at the hospital I
didn't know what else to do with my life
to be honest um
and so I come to Austin turns out my
brother was in the middle of like his I
had no idea what I was walking into um I
don't want to tell his his story on you
know no it's fine very bad situation um
and now then I understood maybe why he
was reaching out for me to come he
wanted something to happen y anyway he
ended up having this
major life flipping around like verion
too um so then we were just like and
then we had to met another friend and
they just sort of like grew this sort of
community whatever um so I'm out looking
for work because I have to pay I was
sleeping on a tile floor in Austin um
had like maybe three sets of clothes to
wear you know I didn't really need
anything um and I didn't have a car
didn't have anything and I'm walking
around just picking up applications
anywhere nearby to pay rent and I was at
this little local coffee shop and
um there was a guy that there that
overheard me that I'm looking for a job
ultimately ends up being my husband and
he's like I could use some help if you
need some work you
know and
um this s it's so funny because I was so
backward and
shy um and he there's a big age
difference too so he's like 15 years
older than me um and anyway I go over
there and I see that uh he had a
sandwich shop and I was I went home and
I was like there's just no way that all
my friends went off to college and are
doing all these great things there's no
way I'm going to tell people that I'm
working at a sandwich shop like what a
failure and as soon as I said that I
felt this massive conviction of like who
do you think you
are you just you just came from Africa
where you saw people an absolute abject
poverty and you think you're too good to
work at is and I was like okay I'm
taking this job um because I felt like
clearly my ego needs to die um and so
yeah so I I went over there and it's
like one of those things almost
immediately we my husband was a heavy
smoker he's
like and he can't stand for anyone to be
working if he's not working so every
time he had a smoke break he'd like make
everyone go outside and sit with him so
annoying um but we started talking and
it was like immediately like you start
you feel like you've known someone
forever and you can't stop talking yeah
it like that completely platonic in fact
we never dated like that's for later but
we never dated um but we were just I was
crazy about him he's so
intelligent um and he was very
interested in me like when he found out
that I had been a missionary he's like
I've never met an actual Christian like
he knows nominal Christians or he knows
people who you know it's it's like a
religious sect or it's
a and so the kind the level of
conversations we were having he was very
interested in and
um man we spent hours and hours and
hours and hours just like talking and um
we up becoming just incredibly close
friends and um a lot of stuff happened
around that time like uh my mom was
diagnosed with cancer so I had to go
back home and just this whole time by
the way spiritually I'm just like I have
no idea what's happening with my life
I'm just going from day to day you're
not going to
church no at this point I was not I was
still devouring literature I mean
um I got really into like watch my knee
I was trying to solve the problem
of why Christian lives didn't look like
I thought they should where was the
power where was the yeah um overcoming
of sin um I'm looking around at the
church I had gotten involved in a church
uh here in Austin I was even on the
leadership
and it was just so hard for me like
there's I am the kind of person who like
they you know you walk into a church and
they have like a list of this is what we
believe yeah and I'm like I I can't tell
I can't tell you I believe all that
stuff like the hell do I know and you
know one of them was even about the um
what's it called the whether not the
Bible's like completely inaccurate or oh
inherency or
infallibility that one drove me really
crazy and I thought I was actually GNA
get kicked out of the church because I
was like well what do you mean by an
errant like what does that even mean and
um I don't know I just I just didn't
feel like I belonged in church circles
and every community group I was in it's
like there sitting around watching The
Bachelor like that was their idea of uh
of
Fellowship here I am here I am somebody
who doesn't watch TV doesn't watch
movies I don't drink I don't smoke I do
all the disciplines I'm like somebody
who's fasting and praying and wake up at
five o'clock every morning to read pray
you know and then the thing is I I was
even though I knew intellectually that
it's not my own
righteousness I was definitely living I
definitely believed that it would I was
that eager kid in the classroom who
wants to impress their teacher I wanted
God to call on me and I wanted to be
worthy of him calling on me and now I
look back and I realize how much of that
was just um unhealed trauma stuff and
also just probably an attachment
disorder for my caregivers and stuff
like that that I totally put on God as
soon as feelings would win
I feel like I was abandoned or
rejected because I wasn't good enough
and I wasn't trying hard enough and it's
because of some secret sin that I
haven't managed yet so I was obsessively
trying to like play whack-a-mole with
every sin in my life if I thought the
tone of my voice when I talk to someone
was too arrogant or something I mean I
would just it would devour me I couldn't
sleep at night it was that
bad um long story short uh
uh let's see I I my brother ended up
having a break a breakdown he had he has
some issues that have now been resolved
again I don't want to like right stuff
that was undiagnosed that we weren't
aware of and right but it just shattered
my world because suddenly I was
completely alone I was um so I skipped
the part about my husband and I getting
him asking me to marry him it was one of
those like we hadn't dated or anything
he was just like what do you think about
us getting married and I was like okay
um and I think well this is what I think
happened is that to me
he he is someone of like when I say
Integrity I mean like integral like he
is so like the unity of character what
you see is what you get so safe he's
deep he's
um and I just felt like I felt so lost
and so
fragmented that I just wanted to cling
to somebody that was whole and that
seemed to know what they were where they
were going and I think I either I mean I
know I made the right choice but I know
that that was kind of my instinct was
I'm not going to find anybody better
than you and I think you're the only
person that can tolerate my craziness um
anyway so we had decided to get married
and his but his dad died and um yeah so
all this stuff was going on around me
and I just
remember when waking up one morning like
I always did like 5:00 to go read and
pray and it was
like uh like the ceiling was just steel
like the heavens closed
up the words coming out of my mouth felt
like lead like they just like nothing
and I got up and I just said I'm not
doing this anymore I'm done and it
wasn't like um
I didn't necessarily feel like I don't
know it's I still get emotional thinking
about it because it was it was like it
was so heartbreaking for me because all
of my identity my entire life
was that's that was it all my eggs were
in that basket I had no backup plan I
never had even imagined myself as a
different kind of person yeah um but I
felt like I just wasn't going to be able
to make the cut and that I wasn't good
enough and that
ultimately God had rejected me or
something I don't know I couldn't even
think about it I couldn't open my bible
again um and then I just kind of went
into this a Dark Night of the soul that
lasted a really really long
time and
um yeah so we we got married we had kids
and you know during this time even
though I say like it was a dark night of
the Soul there were I think my last
journal entry actually said I've
believed in the gospel of my right arm
and my right arm has failed me and wow I
would be driving down the road and
unprovoked or whatever this sense would
come over me and I would have like this
visual in my mind of like being held by
something that I wasn't holding on to
and it was almost like hey you let go
but I didn't let go so Calvinism is
going to come back bite me later on you
know because I'm going to ultimately
believe in the sovereignty of
God because at a certain point I don't
have a choice anymore because like yeah
I know absolutely that um none of this
is depended on me and my righteousness
like I thought it would yeah um and you
know this verse kept coming up and I
know it's like whatever it's out of
context and whatever but it is the verse
that always came up to me it was in
Isaiah 6:13 where it talks about like
even when everything is laid waste but
the the seed the imperishable seed is in
the stump you know yeah and I didn't
know exactly what it meant but I knew
what it meant that I had been everything
was going to be torn down and uh like I
was going through a crucible but that
that imperishable seed was Untouchable
and I couldn't destroy it and um and so
yeah I just felt like a seed buried
under snow for the the next long time
until let's see
um getting into my 30s and
stuff wow you made a you did a lot in 30
years yeah well it gets it gets worse
I'm just kidding um so I had kids but I
was really terrible stay-at-home mom
felt all the only thing that kept me
going actually is podcasts because I was
so yeah unstimulated yeah
um taking care of little
kids it's it's yeah it it's can be mind-
numbing and so of course I mean
especially before podcasts and things
there's a reason there's a reason
certain moms look the way they did
because gosh it it's I could not easy
even hanging out with Mom groups yeah my
husband I remember would be like you get
to sit home and like have coffee with
friends and I'm like
friends they talk about strollers and
Carson and
diapers I'm like I'm not having fun
here but you know it's like funny
recently I read that this little book by
I can't remember his name Ro rolheiser I
don't know what his name Ronald anyway
it's called um domestic Monastery and it
kind of gave me a little different
perspective on the seasons of our lives
like where we think we're not doing
spiritual work but our ego has clearly
gone to die and I feel like motherhood's
kind of where my my ego is gone to die
like you're constantly
disrupted you're not able to make
something of yourself you're never able
to achieve
something that feels successful to me
anyway especially as an ADHD Mall my
house was always a mess everything's
chaos I just felt like wow I suck at
everything but you know when my first
was four months old uh we had we had a
restaurant um a manager called in sick
and I four month old 6 o'clock in the
morning I get up and I take my baby with
me to work and I'm like breastfeeding
while I'm taking
orders I was like giving him naps three
times a day in the restur just doing
whatever you have to do um and I just
was I wanted a way out but I didn't know
how to get out I was like I'm I just
yeah so by the time I'm getting to 30
I'm having a midlife crisis of I can see
my future and my husband's always going
to be working seven days a week and I'm
stuck doing this working and dealing
with the kids and failing at everything
and um so I started getting into like
really serious
depression and I I also had developed an
autoimmune disease and so I had like
gotten into like nutrition trying to
reverse it and then finally after like
years like I felt a little bit better
but I read this book called The Last
best cure and she starts talking about
EMDR and the Mind Body
Connection and it's all it was a science
journal who had interviewed all of the
top researchers around it and seeing
this connection between um adverse
childhood events like your a score and
the likelihood of you getting certain
disorders and they it can predict it
with uncanny accuracy right and I just
thought what whatever I'll give it a
chance but I've like I've done therapy
I'm so tired of talking about like my
childhood I don't want to deal with any
of this stuff um
anymore and uh but I was like I'll try
it I did an EMDR section have you ever
heard of EMDR oh yeah yeah yeah holy
 it's weird stuff I mean you'd think
what how's that going to do anything but
actually we have a retired marriage and
family therapist in the church and she
she wound up that was the bread and
butter of her practice for a long time I
mean it's I thought it was woooo stuff
yeah but it turns out that all these
ancient practices that were connected
mind and body like we thought we're like
too freaking smart um they knew what
they were doing yeah um and and you know
even what builts up to this i' started
doing yoga and I just felt like this
body work and all the stuff that I was
doing had because this this comes up
later that's the whole only reason I'm
really mentioning it is because I was
had become sort of limber like all the
things in one of my videos I talk about
how like aifi my heart had become toward
like I was fully inoculated I've been
there done that like I did it all the
way you know what I mean y um and so I
just I thought I was completely
inoculated against really the gospel or
Jesus ever again yeah um but I knew
something really profound had happened
to me but I didn't know what to do with
it so I just couldn't look at it anymore
yeah um so anyway I just all these
things had sort of limbered me up and
going into EMDR I had this profound
realization because you don't even
really do a lot of talking you know and
it's like a magic wand it's crazy yeah
it's pretty crazy
I had this explosion of like first of
all I for the first time
understood that how how insanely lonely
I was as a child and how that loneliness
and this insecure attachment that I had
that I you know I started make
connecting all these dots in all of my
relationships I started seeing this
right like my fear of rejection is not
just like a normal fear of
rejection um it's it destroys me Y and
um
yeah and in the session you know I was
able to look basically communicate with
my younger me and kind of heal that
memory I was able to insert yeah it's
like cleaning a wound you know what I
mean I was able to clean out de bride
that wound and and let it properly heal
over you know and then um so that was
the beginning and then I'm about to turn
33 and I'm thinking man things are
getting better I'm my depression's gone
like
um and then my husband has a heart
attack and ends up having a quadruple
bypass and here I am now having like got
multiple businesses my youngest was like
two years
old
and once again just feeling like I'm
back into crisis mode crisis mode like
seems to be the Story of My
Life um and that was around the time too
that um we had a friend visiting from
anyways actually the son of my dad's
best friend from the ministry who ended
up becoming a hardcore atheist like talk
about Dawkins Hitchens those guys yeah
oh he's self-educated yeah worked with
NASA he was the superintendent of the um
obser Observatory at a major university
um brilliant you know guy they passed
over phds for to put this guy like so
he's brilliant and he's a brilliant
atheist like so his son though became
interested in my dad and our family and
started bringing his family to come
visit on the Summers and so he was sort
of softening in his you know opening up
and I was still closed off and we're
having this conversation and he brings
up have you ever heard of Jordan
Peterson gosh this is this is like 2016
uhuh and I said no um and he was like he
just I remember the look on his face he
looks at me he's like I think he'd
really like this guy so he sends me the
link to his first interview on Joe Rogan
and I mean I'm listening to this
interview couldn't care less about that
that bill he was talking about really it
was all these other things that he
talked about yeah yeah it was like there
was like this quickening you know yeah
like something just like lurched in my
spirit yeah and I didn't really know
what it was but I knew I wanted more
yeah and I joke about it but if he says
he has 200 hours of videos on YouTube I
watch 200 hours of videos on YouTube we
get to the biblical series oh my gosh
like so we get to Genesis I wept I wept
through the entire thing right alongside
Jordan um in fact I think I might be the
only person who cries as much as Jordan
Peterson um and I just started so my
brother and I and my dad even like my
dad's really good at staying connected
and always been able to talk to us even
though we were postchristian you know
yeah yeah um but my brother and I were
like listen Sam Harris Eric Weinstein
you know Daniel like we were really into
all this stuff yeah for years and so
then you hear Jordan and Sam debating
and it was like I really like Jordan I
really like Sam but now we're hearing
these ideas yeah on stage with with each
other yeah and it was like that inner
battle that we were having too being
right there on stage and it was like
who's who's going to win and which side
are we going to be whatever um GE one
out clearly but um there was definitely
I think think that
Jordan played this role in turning over
the soil of my heart to such a degree
that I was just I was ripe for something
to happen um I started seeing the Bible
from a different way the fact that he
uses different language and the saying
this how I feel with Veri and and you
and and now it's like John Mark comr for
example I actually feel the same way
about him able to use language in a
different way that does not just you
know these barriers don't fly up to
where you can actually hear it in you
know something in a new way um so let's
say fast forward now my during covid all
this stuff is happening and I you feel
things
happening with people they start having
deeper conversations about things the
meaning crisis and then um my parents
get covid M and they get over covid but
my dad apparently had a secondary
infection he had pneumonia and they were
hospitalized and you know during that
time you can't like communicate with
them whatever right um we had no idea
that my dad was dying oh oh no and my
dad on me tell like was my absolute best
friend he every morning it's like
whatever podcast I'm listening to like
could not wait to talk to my dad about
it and so um and then like so my last
conversation with him I should have
known that he knew that he was because
he was in and out of like
coherency he end up dying of sepsis
because they didn't treat because of all
the weird stuff and you know Co Pati he
was treated like a CO patient I don't
know they put him on from disae which
probably complicated it too anyway um we
had this conversation and he just was
like regaling his whole life he told me
his whole life story from the beginning
to the end and I was just ripped you
know
um and I kind of had this sense of like
he it was you
know um and then later I found out that
like the night before he called my
brother and they talked until like 2
o'clock in the morning my dad just was
like Jed listen I need you to listen to
me and he told my
brother the gospel and he just said
listen he said um like basically no
matter I don't even know how he worded
it my brother would be better but um he
said you can't get away from Jesus you
know yeah
and then um yeah so my dad passed away
it was very traumatic for our family my
mom and dad were like Inseparable like
madly in love to like the to a
disgusting point you
know H like they just were mad about
each
other
really bad but so at his memorial and I
didn't tell you this part but because
this is important for like eight years
my dad had been trying to convince me to
go to North Point and that's a church
yes his selling point on this was you
can come as you are it doesn't matter
where you are in your faith or whatever
or lack of like we've got atheists there
we've got agnostics we've got speakers
we've got all kinds of people you will
be welcomed and and he just said I just
wish you could get involved with the
music because in my youth I had done I
was a worship leader for years um and so
I went with him like once to and first
of all I had like such an allergic
reaction to church at this point I was
like there just it hurt it was
physically painful to be in a church um
and then I'm looking at the music and
you're in Austin Texas I mean the
singers are like from The Voice and
American Idol these like they have
albums all these people have they're
professionals and I'm like Dad barely
played guitar or sung in 15 years like
it's never going to happen um but for
eight years he was on me about that so
at his memorial my dad was a
songwriter and I sang a few of his
songs and when you know like the worship
the music director at the church was
there and weeks later I get a call
inviting me to um come hang out in his
Studio
and of course I'm thinking he's being
nice cuz my dad worked on the soundboard
and he's just trying to like reach out
and be nice or whatever yeah and I go in
thinking I'm there for a rehearsal and
then we just talk and it was so
awkward I like I don't even know I
probably said such I don't even know it
was so awkward and I was in such the
throws of grief yeah um I think I said
so many F wordss because I'm like not
trying to like was not even trying to
like um and uh and they were both like
really introverted and like H
anyway and then like I leave and I get
in the car and I'm like the was
that why why did I just come here and
have this conversation with these people
you know and then they invited me back
again and this time they were like let's
sing a song and I just I froze I was
like yeah I can't do this and I don't
know why I'm doing this like I don't
want to why are we
singing and it was it was so bad Paul
like I still like my stomach hurts when
I think of I'm so embarrassed yeah but
I'm about to
leave and he stops this guy the music
director he stops and he's like
Emily do you
ever do you think that things happen for
a
reason and I look at him and I'm like
all cynical and I was like well it
depends on what you mean by that I guess
and he said well I don't know how to
explain it but you just keep coming up
and it's like as soon as these words
come out of his mouth I'm immediately
taken back to like 14-year-old me
right and I felt so apprehended by God
in that moment and had nothing to do
with because he was inviting me to do
music with them right he just said I
feel like we're supposed to do music
together yeah he had no idea that my dad
had been telling me this for eight years
yeah he didn't know any of the stuff
that really was going on with me
yeah and I just remember freezing in
that moment it was like God just grabbed
a hold of me and it was
like the time in the wilderness whatever
that is it's over we've got work we've
got stuff to do let's go you know yeah
um and it was not I mean that was wild
because no one in my life knew knew me
ever as a Christian so I had to sit down
with each one of my
friends because they were like why are
you going to church
and I was like well you're not just
going to church you're up on stage at a
really big church yes
yes um and also it's like there was all
this stuff happening inside of me so
especially my closest friends I had like
these sit down conversations and you
know I'm expecting them to be like you
lost your mind instead they're like can
I go with
you and suddenly I have all these people
in my life
that were are interested in God and
Jesus and like they never really heard
the gospel and so all this St and then
my brother ends up having this like
massive turnaround again too I'm telling
you like if you asked me if my brother
he was I never called myself an atheist
he he would have considered himself like
that yeah
um so for him to I mean it's it's wild
that's why I say I now believe in the
sovereignty of God because when I was
not going after him
uh yeah completely change changed my
life back around um and this like the
last part of this really is that um
doing the music it was like such a
trigger for me and you know I don't know
if you ever heard of ifs internal family
systems yeah it's a form of therapy too
yeah also it's it's like where you kind
of deal with the parts of yourself like
you are not you are like a community of
Parts yeah um and that each one of these
parts is there for a reason to like
protect you or whatever um but he has
this language where he talks about like
it's not he doesn't use the word trigger
e or it's trail
head and because I couldn't sleep I was
complet I was just rought with
anxiety um like what the heck am I doing
I am not good enough I'm such a I was
embarrassed I felt like I sucked so bad
and I just didn't want to do it now with
with this are you playing music that
they are picking for you or do you have
a degree of leeway over your picking
none and I still and like no they which
which none I don't no they assigned me
okay okay okay um and so you're a
performer in that sense rather than a
leader yes yes and it's that's an
important distinction in a context like
this absolutely it's also part of my
current ongoing crisis that I'm working
through okay is what it means to be part
of a church in this
context often you know we talk about
authenticity like yeah uh me
managing that is sacred to me that like
that's something I I just will
not I cannot uh I cannot stand up there
and perform I can't it so when my
younger years like through ym and these
things I was definitely a worship leader
I have a catalog of songs that I know
and we will be in these hours long
prayer and talking sharing kind of
situations and I would be like d like
being led by the Holy Spirit like songs
would come up Y and um you really depend
on a sort of I hate to use like the
religious language but you you really
depend on a certain anointing yeah yeah
yeah um and so now now getting feedback
about my stage presence or yeah I it's a
real struggle um so there was all that
going on and anyway I just felt like I
was having a nervous breakdown yeah and
uh I was like I don't know what's going
on I tried to get into emergency therapy
because I thought I thought I was
actually losing my mind there was one
night that my husband held I was crying
hysterically for hours and he held me
just praying for me for like two hours
straight because I thought I was having
a nervous breakdown because it's all
mingled in with the grief and like you
know you're in this emotionally very um
everything is just so turned over you
know and all these things that I've
worked my whole life to not have to face
are now like I'm facing them so why did
you agree to do this why yes I don't
know well first of all it's like in that
moment it was uh was your father well
it's partly and it's also
um you know I've always said
that during worship or like what I was
what I was a part of doing like when I
was younger or music in general so like
even so when I left like that like I
don't know what do you say left the fa
how do you say that I don't know I don't
know when I was in the wilderness
because it's really it's really hard to
figure out how to say a lot
of yeah none of those words or phrases
feel right they feel really trite and
empty and I don't know what to say but
whenever I left all that stuff I lost
music too it was like I my enjoyment in
music was so much in the actual worship
and the whether not whether it's
religious music or not there was
something I my dad described it as like
he felt the Delight of God on him when
he would sing he was he led worship too
you know and that's exactly how it felt
like there is something that happens
inside of me that feels like the warmth
of God is all around me and I don't know
how else to describe it y um and so
that's what I was you know saying yes to
and it felt like it was felt like it was
designed for me to just like a door just
open for me to just walk right into you
know and it has been great but I think
part of part of what happened is it was
used to really there was so much healing
that needed to be done still and so like
I said like this
Trailhead analogy worked very well for
me because I felt like I I was having
these panic attacks which I've never had
in my life I had to pull over the side
of on the side of the road thought I was
having heart attack um crying all day
long like couldn't figure out what was
going on anyway and so this idea of the
trail head was like okay there's
something there and if you decide to go
down that
trail yes it's like it feels like it's
going to destroy you because that's what
I was afraid of but it's also the source
of the deep profound healing that you're
longing for yeah and I just had this
there was this one moment I had been
reading like Gabor mate and all these
things and there was one page on there
that just struck me one day I'm sitting
on my couch reading and it just hit me
all of a sudden that I have never
known the unconditional love of God and
see I still get emotional sorry I told
you I cry more than Jordan Peterson
um and I just realized that every person
person needs to have that as a child
they need to know there's nothing you
can
do to be loved more or to be loved
less and from such an early age I had
experienced such
an such a massive amount of Shame and
guilt and sense of unworthiness and
unloving lovableness whatever yeah um
that I just I couldn't shake the rest of
my all those decades and I was always
trying to justify my existence by
being good enough or Winsome enough or
agreeable enough or likable enough
um and it I like as I'm reading that
page I just I've had this profound sense
of the deep love of God that I'd never
known before and that sense of
like
this time you're not a little girl
that's
alone and
neglected but you're you have a
community around you and this time like
I'm going with you and that's where the
healing is going to come from you know
and um yeah that
was yeah I've had like three maybe
experiences in my life but the initial
one when I was like 16 EMDR and then
that one
that was so um
yeah lifechanging you know and um yeah
so that's kind of where I am now and
I've just been trying to sort out my
relationship to church well that's where
you are now so you didn't talk about
getting out of getting off the stage at
North Point because
that's I mean
that's that's a that's a moment too
because you have to you got kicked off
or you quit oh oh North Point yeah oh no
I did not get in fact it's kind of
interesting because like I went in the
beginning I'm sort of just I would be
coming like once um once every three
months sometimes like just sporadically
and every single time I'd think okay I I
suck and I'm for sure that's the last
time I'm doing this and I wanted to be
fired like and then what happened was
all of the
main um group left all
together and then guess what I'm like
the only person left so it was me all
the worship leaders left yeah yeah it's
I I don't want to like no that's okay
you don't have to go into details those
things those things wreck videos T trust
me I or at least they wreck the they
they make great videos but you can't put
them on YouTube so no I mean and you
know it was nothing like there was
nothing or bad there was nothing
scandalous at all it's just it's just
church stuff you know yeah yeah um it's
it's sometimes the com between Church
stuffs stuff and people with artist
temperaments because you nailed it you
nailed it churches Church These mega
churches become these massive
institutions that are experienced
delivery machines and they need artists
to deliver the experience to people but
artists are are these you know there's
there's you know authenticity you have
this level there has to be congruence on
the inside and the the outside and so oh
you nailed it Paul because so as soon as
it happened I went scrambling into fix
it mode and I'm like I scheduled
meetings with like the leadership of the
church and I I just was saying listen I
know I'm an outsider I know I'm just a
random person that comes in and out on
the stage but I really think you guys
should think about the fact that in the
leadership there's a tendency to want to
control everything and I don't mean that
in a bad way it's I mean you got to be
these type A people that it is like that
thing is flawless I mean they have yeah
and it's so but you know when you have
all that structure it gives you the
space for you know to relax into it yes
um but then I I just said you know the
thing that this guy did so well was he
you know he's dancing on that border
between Order and
Chaos and when you when you try to
control that you're going to lose the
magic because the magic is on that dance
between order and and especially when it
comes to things like those um those
spaces in the Sunday Morning Experience
that are yep yep I mean because I I hear
it all the time I have people come up to
me all the time telling me that what's
happening inside of them during the
music it's it's way more impactful than
the message oh yeah yeah yeah and so I'm
like you can't discount that and if you
try to over
manage that part you're going to lose
the
magic which makes the oh the oh gosh
there's a there's there's a whole there
there's so much in that whole area in
terms of mega churches and really in
many in most cases in many cases the the
the the the psycho
technology that energizes the mega
church movement is mass worship as we
call it and it's so deeply tied to
music and then the relationship between
that and this religious industrial
complex that is trying to affect I mean
and you just said you know it's the
order chaos thing and and and that's why
I asked immediately were you a performer
because this because
churches and this then gets into the
question of what exactly is a church is
a church this Community of Christ that
is going to have all of this raggedness
which in in which cases things in a
church can get really raggedy yeah which
is and and then people who are coming in
because part of what Americans want from
institutions is again this restraining
of chaos because individual people so if
you kind of take people in and you kind
of govern them and you create an
institution you sort of try to stabilize
that so you can deliver on expected
outcomes and but the expected outcomes
that you want the church to deliver on
is is not a you know is a is there's
wildness built into that and if you if
you ring the wildness out of it it's
dead and now exactly what I was about to
say it's you know uh this goes back
again to like things that Martin Shaw
and uh what's the other guy there Martin
Shaw and this other guy that have
similar they're very art Paul Kings
North yes um the idea of like the
rewilding and it's like we have I think
overly yeah we have just
overl it's it's so neat and the thing is
like all the things that we need to
happen don't happen in that neat space
and so I don't know I I've I don't know
the answer for it so well there is no
answer for it and I loved how Martin
Shaw in that conversation basically says
we got to talk about this wild thing and
then he B basically goes and says you
know he he he blew up my life he blew up
my finances he blew up my you know it
just he blew up everything and and there
is and Lewis you know tries to get at
this with Asam is not a tame lion right
but it's it's also and of course I'm
preaching through the gospel of Mark I'm
preaching in the gospel of Mark right
now and that wildness in the gospel of
Mark is so
tangible that I mean Jesus mother and
brothers come to him to try to you
know okay okay Jesus I think we've had
quite enough of this okay and it's like
uh you have absolutely no idea how
stranger this is going and then and the
fact that you know Mary and James come
around in the end as a as a testament to
truth but you know part of what's
powerful about your story is that it is
so wild
and that is a that is a big theme
in it's just it's just so hard to talk
about because people are so diverse and
there are there are really
wonderful
serious genuine Christians who have
deeply orderly faith and life that that
is just true and so you can't say unless
I see the wildness it's not authentic
and true no you can't say that that's
how Wild it is that you can't just say
well this is chaos no it's it's you
know anyway I'm sorry I interrupted no
you didn't enter up I mean that's this
is so much of what I've wanted to talk
to you about since I first ever saw your
videos too because the question that I
have is like I mean and I don't think
it's necessarily answerable and and also
I will say one thing that I gravitated
to your channel from is like you have
such a lightness about you like um it
doesn't seem to ruffle you
like things that to me I just I don't
want to say it's like I doubt or I
become I feel like this urgency like I
need to figure this out and and you just
you're able to laugh about it and just
like you notice it You observe it and
you're like but it doesn't it doesn't
affect you whereas I become like this is
a problem and I need to know I need to
understand it I need to get my mind
around it and like you're okay not
having your mind so whenever I would
listen to you I would like I could just
feel my nervous system calming down you
know like I'll be so shaken by things
that are happening in the world and so
my real question is like what does it
mean and it's always been my question
what does it mean to be a a Believer a
follower of Jesus of Nazareth in this
world what does it mean to be the church
um what is our function what is our role
like um and as you know like all like
current events and and politics and this
has been a problem in my life for a long
time because it's not the first time
stuff like this happens it's like I all
of these things sort of intersect like
the Christian nationalism yeah um
intersects on my my practical life you
know um part of my husband like he would
never say he's a Christian he he would
never because he has this whole like
anti being colonized and he's like you
know I love that phrase because it's
it's everything and he doesn't like if
he thinks I'm trying to colonize him I'm
trying to make him use use these exact
words that I want him to say whatever
and he's like I'm not going to do it
because I know what happens when people
you know yeah get too much into their
groups yeah
um but I think there's so like even at
North Point like there's been this
massive growth very sudden too it's like
uh there's so many people coming in and
so all my thing is like well what are we
going to do with all these people we
can't like Sunday morning is not good
enough and so enter in John Mark comr so
I discover John Mark comr because uh we
we did like one of his books in my group
and I never buy those books did you send
me that video a bunch of PE few people
sent me that video so I sent you a video
a long time ago of him talking about he
talks about the
um a community and the culture of
outrage and then he does community in a
something it's always like uses the
alliterations but something political
polarization oh okay and his take on it
was just like it's
like looking something that transcends
it you know because when you get into it
it's super muddy and it's super it's
like cotton wool like you just can't
parse things out and people just become
so ideologically possessed there's no
conversation and I feel like a real a
real Christianity a real following the
way should be able to transcend it yeah
you know and it's hard because as soon
as I try to have these conversations
with people it's like even if I'm so
careful about what language and what
words I
use um it's just like you've activated
their political system yeah yeah yeah
yeah yeah it's like it's like one of
these movies where there's a bomb that
has to be you know you're gonna have to
you're gonna have to you're gonna have
to deactivate this bomb and there's all
these wires and and it's like um is it
the green wire or the red wire but
you that's where I feel like I I get
that same sort of imagery around like
Veri because it's like oh he's got a
right he'll just invent words we'll just
invent words I'll tell you what those
words mean and you just have to
experience it to figure out what it
means and uh that's how we're that's how
we're going to do this new world thing
because I don't necessarily see a way
around it you know yeah there's no way
around much of anything actually it's
you know it's the AA aphorism there's
you know the only way it passed is
through I mean that's that's the way it
is in this world and that's and many
ways that's the point of the
Cross and that's the point of Gethsemane
where Jesus is basically asking is it is
it really true The Only Way Forward is
through and the answer is
yes and that's why you must die and um
you know your your point
about I mean what is what is a what is a
Christian I mean I I still hold to my
definition a Christian is someone who
trusts Jesus more than they
trusts and
um
it's it's it's really hard to trust
Jesus I mean to because oh you trust
Jesus y yeah but then it's trust Jesus
with this right and and and of course
again the cross is at the center of it
because I have I have to trust the
father and and a lot of it's so funny
because I once I was talking about the
resurrection and people are like and I
say well you know we have this we have
this example that Jesus actually goes to
death and comes out the other end and
and people are like yeah but he knew he
was going to be raised and it's
like you
know what you're just not that's in many
ways you you do have to sort of immerse
yourself in the Jesus of the gospels and
this Sunday I preached on one of my
favorite stories with the woman with
yeah it's one my favorite I listen to I
listen to all your sermons Paul well
thank you so it's you know and and I
think I think part of the
modern it's not just
modern
we this is an issue with church
too we tend to want we have all these
different ways of trying to avoid
trusting in Jesus and that's the idol
making thing so we'll turn the church
into an idol and I think part of the
reason the church is always messed up is
that's part of the way
that God helps us not make it an idol if
at all possible even though we make all
kinds of things into Idols because how
can you I was just listening to the the
front end I haven't I haven't been I
haven't got the whole thing yet but um
Andrew Sullivan talking to Justin brle
um and suin had just priorly on his
podcast and you know Andrew suvin was
talking about the the fact the fact that
it was his Arch
Bishop at the heart of the pedophile
Scandal and it wasn't just him covering
it up it was you know and and there's
there are
few you know there are few things in
life that are just
as
clearly evil yeah as molestation of
children and then to have this at the
heart you know and and and so then
Andrew Sullivan talks about the fact
that he he had to get over this in order
to somehow stay in church and and to a
certain degree as as clergy as a
minister on one
hand
the that there's a there's a practical
idolatry that you have with the church
and that
you you want it to be but it's you want
it to be great but it's so
self-interested because you're so deeply
a part of it then there's another part
of it where as clergy you see how the
sausage is made and you really have to
be careful with cynicism because and I I
I don't know much about John Mark comr
but that you know people have been
sending me tidbits since I made that
little video about him and and when I I
heard bits of it in that one interview
when he starts talking about small
church because that's right um in that
at least with a small church I mean
people are always say well if I came to
if I lived in Sacramento I would come to
living stones and I just laugh because
the Living Stones is so raggedy it's so
almost dead it's so uncool and that's
part of the reason I keep putting the
Freddy Freddy and Paul show up because
it's like you you if you if you can't
stomach 20 minutes of the Freddy and
Paul show you're gonna really struggle
with an hour of Living
Stones because um but that's but it's
amazing how many people do love the
Freddy and Paul show yeah yeah there's a
few hundred people that watch that
soccer every week it's probably it's
probably a bigger number than people dip
in but but
it's but this is I mean so many it's so
many every Idol has to die in your
relationship with Jesus it's just the
way it is and Jesus will I mean and your
your story nicely so oh this this is it
and what this is in every case is
something that I can trust in instead of
Jesus and it'll whack that
down and no maybe this maybe if I do
this I don't really need to trust Jesus
whack that down well that's what I feel
like I came to this point where I even
knew like so I knew that everything had
to fall apart because was built on the
wrong foundation and that it necessarily
had to fail like even my own my all of
my religious construct like all of my I
had built up this like whatever Prof
filicity this profile of a really good
Christian but it was all built on the
sinking sand and so like I had that
sense and then also it's funny because
I've had so many experiences too of like
an author someone I really looked up to
but then like and someone commented on
the SE I never like went into it because
I was like it's too to much to say in
the YouTube comment thread but like it's
got to that point where I I don't put my
you just don't put weight you don't put
weight on that you know what I mean um
because you know that people are
absolutely going to fail they have to
and then I wanted to say something too
about Jesus in Gethsemane and whether
whether he knew because this is
something that's been playing in my mind
a lot was whether or not
Jesus really how much Jesus really knew
right yeah and
I had one day this thought that it seems
to me and when I reread the gospels
through this lens it's made it's still
held and it made sense was that Jesus
was what it would be like to be fully
human and fully reliant on the Holy
Spirit right or by the spirit of God to
live because it almost felt like
sometimes in his interactions like he
was like even at the at the Last Supper
you get this idea that he's like one of
you is going to betray me like he got
that sense in that
moment and uh you know
just like he had to just demonstrate
that for us yeah what it meant to live
and to face uh life yeah yeah and to
face human suffering and to Bear up your
cross yeah um even though like
absolutely everything in all of your
reason and all of your logic tells you
that this is a complete fail it's stupid
look nobody's with you you're the only
one doing this stupid crazy thing um but
kept going you know and like all you
have to do is read the book of Acts and
you know I
I that's wild like the book of Acts
every time I read it I'm like I forgot
about that part like that's yeah yeah um
but you just see the kind of certainty
that they had and even Paul like but you
know and Tim Keller he'll talk about
what it means to commit your steps he's
like to commit your steps meaning you
put all of your weight on that step
believing that it's going to hold you up
yeah and uh and like that's you know but
for everything there's also a there's
there's a shadow idolatry to it and and
you see that with the
believism where it's okay so if we're
always looking for these we're always
looking for these substitutes so if I if
I really really believe and it's like
well now you've just put your belief in
believism and it's it's always it's
always got to be in Jesus and in him
alone and and what's so amazing
about so we've got of course in this
little corner um you we've got every of
course we've got Sam Sam the Unitarian
and we've got Jacob the um J Jacob the
very interesting I don't even know how
to describe Jacob's Judaism being
because it's just kind of weird
but
you've the the we imagine we can get
into jesus' head and it's like I don't
even know my own head and I'm gonna
somehow it's I'm gonna somehow transcend
2,000 years and get into the head of the
god man and make and and I think the
reason that that Orthodox Catholic
Christianity small Orthodox small C
Catholic Christianity AR at you know the
Trinity and the doctrine of christology
is it just kind of put boundaries on
there and to say you know once you make
him not God something of This falls
apart and once you make him not man
something of This falls apart but if you
think you can sort of you know find the
formula for this you know now you've got
another idolatry and so it's the the the
basic the most basic level is trust and
that's where of course get
Gethsemane you know if Jesus can be
surprised now whether or not you know
you you just go round and around these
things but Jesus was surprised by this
woman that sneaks up and and pickpockets
a miracle out of his cloak um that was
another example of what I like what I
was saying he he seems genuinely
surprised yes yes yes so it's and and
and and then with the church too you've
you've just got to live with these
uncertainties and and the only way to
live with uncertainty is trust and that
sounds crazy because wait a minute trust
is the opposite of
uncertainty
yeah well I think trust though it
acknowledges the uncertainty and it does
it anyway you know yeah yeah yeah yeah
and that's and that's so often because I
think the uncertainty is also
part of the posture the proper posture
of man before God is like what do we
know you know what I mean yeah yeah it's
it's just a like I I'm just a
man and or a woman in my case I guess so
so you found Peterson and then you found
Pou and then you found the corner and um
and now you're uh are you are you going
to church anywhere now or you just kind
of no I'm I'm I'm still leading worship
at North Point are you really yes oh my
and it's I mean you know what it's so
interesting because I've always been
so cynical about church and something I
I just have grown so much love for these
people and I honestly I feel like it's
it started out just like it's in
obedience I felt very strongly that I
was supposed to just start going to
church somewhere start building
Community yeah I joined a women's group
and I have like all I mean it's a lot of
older women I absolutely love being
around older women yeah yeah yeah oh my
gosh they're hilarious and yeah I'm just
sort of like they're done playing
certain games yeah oh my gosh and
they're so different and it's just I
just love it we have all kinds of people
at that church too by the way so that
kind of keeps it fun yeah yeah I even
the leadership it's
like they're probably gonna see this too
I imagine because I I send out like pvk
videos like they're candy um I'll be
like have you seen this have you thought
about this because they're always
dealing with all the complexity culture
what's going on in modernity and because
they have this huge flux of people
coming in that are bringing in all these
ideas and they're trying to sort it out
too yeah so I'll share you know with
them stuff that you anyway so they're
very they're familiar with you um but no
I I love them first of all they're very
they're
genuine um they definitely care and they
do things in a different way I don't
know I mean but I think that they regret
ever giving me their cell phone
numbers and I kind of joke this is
another thing I'm gonna say this even
though I know they might see this um
it's like you know they'll bring in like
so a lot of in a lot of ways like here
in Austin the way the music like worship
teams and stuff it's like a lot of Hired
Hands yeah yeah yeah it'll be like gigs
for some people yeah so like they'll
bring someone in who's never sung at the
church before whatever and that person
like they speak between songs you know
and whatever they don't let me say a
word never like and it's so it's so
obvious like anyone else will be given a
speaking role except for me and and you
can't help but wonder and I don't want
to ask because I think at a certain like
maybe I just don't want to know like I
don't want to even know what the answer
to it would be I've let it go it doesn't
hurt my feelings I mean it's not like
I'm just I'm anxious to talk talk to you
know whatever either but you wonder like
yeah because we had so we had Estuary
yesterday and someone brought in a
someone brought in a situation where the
week before he's talking about a
situation at work where we at last two
Estuary meetings we've been talking
about public lies public lies are very
interesting things and so here at this
work one of the issues was right now
this is going through the state of
California because set you live in
Austin so again another state capital so
lot you're basically California now yeah
so a lot
offor so so basically word came on high
that you know EV everything's been you
know um remote work and now people are
going to have to be coming into the
office blah blah blah and but they had
sold off a whole the state had gotten
rid of shed a whole bunch of office
facilities because of covid and we're
not going to everyone but anyway so so
this went out and in this particular
Department a whole bunch of people knew
there's nowhere near enough places in
that building for all of us and this
this isn't going to work and then so
this person was talking about you know
why why does the organization lie like
this and
then the he comes back the next week and
says well it was really amazing because
they basically admitted that there's not
enough room for this and you know and
and and it was like this moment of fresh
air where the organization kind of told
the truth and you know somebody opened
the windows it was like ah and then
someone comes up with another thread and
just you know rips through and then ah
gotta lock it down again and and it's
it's the the difficulty is always just
like you say you got to run this Chaos
and Order thing but when you're doing it
as an institution it's so much trickier
and so then you have these public lies
and and it's oh it's
that's why I'm so happy I am in a I am
in a small church that no
one no one you know I we our our things
are little I know well it's like you
know John Mark comr even because like I
I did the same thing with him like I did
with everyone if someone says something
interesting I want to hear like what
they're about and I take like a large
sample of their what they have to say um
and he he his whole by the way like this
is what I'd love for you to look into
because this is what I'm looking at now
is his whole the his new book is called
practicing the way that's his his
nonprofit organization and it's like
going back to the basics of just like
apprenticeship to Jesus and in one of
those interviews with that same Carrie
guy um an old one he said that it that
he would never Church Plant again and he
said I don't know what I would do he
goes but the whole like the theater of
church I don't think is where it's at
and he said I really think
it needs to be people basically um at a
table together yeah you know it needs to
be people coming together practicing the
way together yeah reinforcing um and
like the whole thing of practicing the
way is just creating the space in your
life for God to be doing things you know
it's it's a resistance against the
spirit of our time against H the World
the Flesh and the devil you know it's
putting up those boundaries and those
resistances in your life that actually
give you space for actual life
transformation um and doing that work
together with other believers and
helping each other along um anyway his
work is really fascinating but whenever
he said this about what we do on Sunday
morning is so much theater I'm like it
absolutely
is and it's really hard for me when I
was young when I was a brand new
believer read read the New Testament for
the first time I just was
like this doesn't look at this is looks
nothing like what I expected this to
look like yeah and it's funny I remember
being in like middle school and they
made the mistake of doing that Financial
presentation during Sunday
service like I don't know if you guys
ever do that where you give like the
financial health of the church and
what's our growth and what's our Str
they do it during the Sunday service yes
and I was there I was present and of
course like the first thing I did
because I was such an annoying child
like so annoying seriously annoying I
went to all the elders or the deacons
and I wanted to I wanted them to defend
this idea of a church being in debt in
order to build buildings because I was
like what is church is it the
building I'm telling I was so annoying
Paul H anyway um but it's true it's like
you think about it you get into this
massive debt and then it's like you have
to justify the existence of this
building and whe whether or not God
shows up whether or not anything is
really happening in this building you
still do this thing every Sunday yeah
well you know and I so you weren't you
weren't at the channel yet if you go
back a year or two I did a I did a
conversation with James Wellman who is a
professor in University of Washington
sort of a sort of a a guy who's well
he's a he's a he's sort of a refugee
from the death of the mainline and he's
an interesting guy and he wrote a book
high high on God which he studied the
main line he studied the um he studied
the mega church movement and and the
conclusion of his book was really rather
startling to me because he says actually
this movement does a tremendous amount
of good in the world and
so I you know you talk about me not
getting flustered well maybe it's
because I'm old it's because I did the
foreign missions thing and I did the
mega church thing not that I pastored
the mega church but I was very much in
terms of church planting and you know
this was our goal and we were reading
all the books and we're doing all that
stuff because the denomination in the
1990s was like Christian for church has
to jump on this because this is going to
save us and it's just a just a failure
for the most part um and then the house
so so you know I ran I ran the whole
gaunt list and then the house church
thing you know the cell groups thing and
so I you know I I walk through all and
and then I was then it was Tim Keller
and now it's Jordan Peterson so I'm I'm
just a freaking meme following the
current right along but you see enough
of this stuff and you and you begin to
say yeah you
know there's something to that theater
it has its value it has its value yeah
just don't make it everything and that's
sort of what I look at so then when the
Catholics and the Orthodox Big C
Catholics and biger Orthodox come at me
and and I said yeah your tradition it
has its value and and all of these
things has have their value but it's
this Dynamic of
constant constantly taking the gifts of
God and turning them into Idols right is
where it's like no it's it's it's always
Jesus alone it's it's it's just you
can't you can't get behind him that was
I think the most potent thing about
pajo's speech was that whole part of
idolatry how he flipped the script or or
he yeah yeah he flipped the idea of what
what idolatry is and that's been so
useful man to me I've I mean you know
when you rerun things through that um
yeah you that perspective yeah and it's
so true so all right all right um we
we've got little time and time left I
don't know if there's anything else that
you wanted to get into or anything you
wanted to ask because again usually sort
of the story takes the story takes
center stage and then we go from there
um well yeah we talked about a lot
um well I did wonder how long have you
known Freddy was he part of your church
for a Freddy was born and baptized as an
infant in this
church really how old is he now are you
allowed to
say he probably wouldn't like me saying
okay but um he he's older or younger
than me
I don't know how old you are I'm I'll be
40 next month he's older than you okay I
can't really tell you know no I know and
he likes it that way because he's he's
very much a kid at heart and then the
the older guy the one the singer oh
Dave Dave Dave's new so Dave I gotta
yeah I gotta he he was a regular
commenter on the Freddy and Paul show
because I do read the comments and I pay
attention to account names and and so he
was a regular commenter on the Freddy
and Paul show when there weren't a lot
of them and um his comments stuck out at
me and then one
day um he shows up at church I didn't
even know he lived in the area and um
and then he and Freddy have have become
friends and so they go out to lunch
together and um they remind me so much
of my family like I I think that's why
why I even like love watching that is
because I got my family's from Southern
Illinois and it's Rec consider it like
very backward and like people would call
them they just write them off like
they're just worthless Hill Builders or
something yes and I like my uncle is a
professional Trapper who you know he he
show he loved it because he thought I'm
a city kid I'm from I wasn't from the
city but he thought I'm a city kid he
would love bringing me dead animals and
stuff and um couldn't understand a word
he was saying talks like boomhower you
know on on King of the Hill or whatever
that guy's name is anyway so like when I
watch them it's just like that feeling
like when you sit around the living room
and like they're they're playing music
and they're talking and I don't know I
just like I just love it I love it so
much I can't even tell you and like well
if you visit if you visit Living Stones
you can probably talk your way if you if
you leave a comment you can if you leave
comments on the Freddy and Paul show you
can probably get on the show otherwise
Freddy's a little some comes in and you
know maybe if they bring a peace
offering um but uh but no and and the
Freddy and Paul show I mean that if if
someone looks at my channel goes back
through videos you'll see that this the
Freddy and Paul show started before the
whole Jordan Peterson thing no I know I
I mean well I did the same thing with
you Paul I I binged all of your stuff
too so I didn't want to
like all of this stuff not all of it
it's impossible it's impossible
impossible I like it that way yeah but I
I did I saw I saw the Freddy and Paul
show I just didn't know what was going
on um the same Grim Grizz I and I I
understand I it's I guess it takes a
while to understand Grim Grizz but I
feel like like the first time I was on
his video or like watching a live stream
I commented were we supposed to drop
acid before watching this or something
like I feel like I feel like if you're
watch you're going to the movie theater
and you didn't know it's a three it's a
3D movie and you need the glasses
um so but but I still watch him because
I think one day I might know what he's
talking about yeah well he's like Pou
and that when I first started watching
Pou it was
like I it it was I had to it took a
while to sort of okay okay and and I
still have that sometimes I'll go back
and I'll watch an old video and I'll see
I'll see that I have been changing along
with the
conversation and so yeah no Grizz Grizz
is a genius he really is he but you know
so one of my Chad mentioned I mentioned
one of my older videos about um you know
simple Christians and sophisticated
Christians and that that is something
that I learned very early on I learned
it from my father because my father's
also a minister and um his his Memoir is
available on Kindle um Chad managed to
get a hard copy which is and it's a it's
a i if I ever get if I ever get the time
I would like to edit his I would like to
edit his um his book because it could
use some good editing because it's too
long but he just wanted to he just
wanted to get all the stories and
actually could only get the stories that
are publicly presentable so um because
he's got some but I grew
up you know I grew up with his
stories and you know life in
Patterson
was I mean you had these
African-Americans coming up from the
south and Patterson you know if you
listen to the Hurricane Bob Dylan song
about Hurricane Carter um that was in
Patterson about the same time I was
growing up and and there's some you know
there's there's an angle to Dylan song
on there too because life is always more
complex but I grew up knowing in church
that there were Saints around me that
would never be known by the rest of the
world and so when um you know when I
when I started doing the channel and
Rando started coming up part of the
reason I wanted to share randle's
conversation on the channel was at least
to a small degree I want the world to
know about some of these Saints and all
of these Saints are sinners they're all
Sinners and they've got sometimes huge
sometimes
huge issues in their lives and they can
be moral issues they can be doctrinal
issues they can be but um God has a way
of working through things which is
really incredible and you see this in
you know this is part of what's fun
about the mining that's going on in
classical patristic and mediev evil
period because you find some saints in
there and and one of the one of the
authors that best um that best sort of
captured it was Frederick beer I loved
uh have you ever read the book Lion
Country pick it up you'll love it um and
that's it's part of it's a much bigger
book of beb so beb is this character
that he makes up that's running a
diploma Mill out of Florida of course
Florida and um he's it maybe there's
suspicions of maybe a child molestation
case against him because he's got to go
to the edge and then there's also rumors
that he once um raised someone from the
dead and so beer puts both of these
together and line countryes kind of the
first book a reporter hears about this
and a reporter decides he's going to
travel down to Florida to debunk and and
expose and pro hopefully get this guy
into
jail and the guy goes down to Florida
and he is by no means prepared for what
he finds and he can't he can't get his
mind around beb is sounds like ja and
Jean veljan yeah but it's it's in
Northern Florida which of course in
Florida the more you go north the more
you go south so um and and so and and
Benner captures that and Benner had a
way of capturing you know aspects of
this I think he also wrote uh this book
book called godric which is a basically
this is long before I found Jordan
Peterson or P or any of this stuff and I
read that book godric and again it was a
it was trying to write it's basically a
person from our time trying to get his
head around a what a the weirdness and
wildness of a medieval Saint right and
and and I think that part of the reason
why part of the reason why're seeing
life we're seeing New Life in
Christianity around characters like Pou
and Martin Shaw and Paul Kings North and
Jordan
Peterson is and and John Veri is because
that wildness is reemerging and you know
Justin brle as a journalist is kind of
on the hunt for this thing um that
wildness is reemerging as the
scaffolding that had sort of obscured it
is crumbling and falling apart so any
yeah and I think
too uh I don't know if it's because I'm
very high in openness anyway or if it's
just my life
experience
but it's like even
like the guy who abused me when I was
little like being able to forgive a
person like that because I'm able to for
whatever reason I'm able to see a person
in all the complexity that is human
existence and you know when I look back
in history and I people like to like
cancel people because of the things that
now we're completely offended by um and
I feel like I've always just been able
to see people in the context of where
where they were and where they are you
know yeah and also because I know that
my own inability to overcome things in
my own life there's there's just a
certain kind of humility I think that is
required of us and dealing with each
other because like is there hope for
those people that you know I sure hope I
sure hope so and I hope that you know I
think I think too we know in a sense
that when we hear these stories of
radical forgiveness radical
reconciliation um we're so moved by it
and we we recognize it that there's
something deeply profoundly good about
it whether or not we think that person
deserves to be forgiven or whatever like
something within our entire body
responds to that and we think like that
is God you know um and so yeah I think
I'm right I'm right there with you and I
think uh especially with Christians
who maybe they've like been raised in a
very narrow sense of what it means to be
a Christian or a follower of Jesus I I
feel lucky because I think my exposure
was right away youth with a mission was
people from all over the world so I I
saw so many different views yeah um when
I was in Africa my room had six
different countries in it you know yeah
uh that'll change you how you view
people and what what each culture thinks
is okay or not okay and you got to
figure out how to live
in together you know yeah no and I think
that's one of the things that Peterson
got
right when he said when you visit
aitz if you're walking through that
place saying it's terrible what those
people
did when you visit visit aitz you should
say I'm capable of this this isn't these
These people aren't a different species
from me and so when we when we see these
stories of radical
forgiveness we can begin to believe that
that can reach even
me and and and
that's that that is that is so powerful
have you read um Cory ten Booms The
Hiding Place yeah it would be a long
time ago yeah yeah I I every now and
then well she's the one who met her met
the yes I mean because the the story
just unfolds CRI every time I've heard
that story she you mean as she tells the
story you just see how much she loved
her sister and what a saint her sister
is it's almost in hagiography for about
her sister and then her sister is killed
and then she's you know and and sort of
a nice Evangelical thing she's on her
Mission about Europe and then a guard
responsible for her sister's
humiliating death comes and is happy to
receive this forgiveness that and and
and oh gosh every time I get to that
point in the book it's just like yeah I
can't I can't take would you well and so
I mean not to keep going but
like this is what I think I feel this
urgency about is I feel like we are
approaching something that will be so
I mean we have an election we've got
Wars we've got rumors of regional Wars
that could easily go into third the
World War III and I just think about is
the church are we in a place where we're
going to be able to look across at
another human and see them as a human or
are we
gonna dehumanize people by reducing them
to their ideologies yeah and are we
going to treat people's ideologies as
um as a licensed like they don't they no
longer deserve to live because they
don't think right and I see a lot of
that on both on all sides and it
frightens me and I think well the only
cure for that is the actual gospel that
I'm not sure that a lot of Christians uh
have heard and I'm not yeah so yeah
heard heard is you know this coming from
a preacher this coming from a preacher
not the right word because hearing I
mean it just gets into that whole
question of you know what did Jesus know
okay talk to me about knowing because
you know part of what what John Veri
brought to it well there's four Ps of
knowing and so suddenly and and you
realize that as a person um okay do you
do you know this well what I mean in
many ways and Peterson was right you
don't know it until you act on it and
that's actually Faith but again it can't
be reduced to believism it's it's so and
in that sense again
it's it it comes down to God's grace to
us and um and living in that
giftedness so anyway anyway um I don't
know where where is it time to land the
plane or you got anything else you want
to put out there I mean I think it I
think I covered it okay I just I'm so
appreciative of what you do and I don't
want to be like stroking your ego or
whatever but I just don't know if you
and I'm sure you do to some degree you
probably hear it a lot but like just
your presence the fact that you even
exist out
there um just means so much to so many
people and I know people I've heard it
said so many times like how patient you
are with people and I can tell how much
you love people and uh yeah and just
thank you for even like responding to my
comments and letting me harass you
because I harass you but you know what
I've been able to like leave the leave
my church church leaders alone I told
them I was like oh I found I found
somebody else to bug yeah you can harass
me yeah be gentle be gentle on those
poor church leaders they have a big
church to try to they have they have a
they have a big they have big edifice to
maintain as do you but um I I've joked
with people too I'm like in so many ways
I like pvk has been like so much of a
pastor to me like you just have no you
just have no idea but I just deeply
appreciate you well I thank you I
appreciate it it's
we will see where we will see where this
whole thing
goes I'm I'm here for it I'm here for it
all right oh one more thing one more
thing and also thank you because I know
as much as people would love for you to
like weigh in on political stuff
like I the day that you do that whether
it's something I agree with I even if
you were agreeing with me I would be
disappointed you know what I mean I know
I know well I saw you know I just saw
that Preston sprinkle seems to be
talking about the question of I think
it's ideological capture and political
capture it's it's a difficult thing
because you know and I tried to talk
about it in terms of religion is dollars
and politics is sense and the reason
that I talk that way is because we never
fully escape the political but we have
to relativize it we have to we have to
make sure when we're talking politics
we're talking pocket change right and
and that's why I got so mad at Peterson
you know what I mean I wanted him to not
do that
thing yeah yeah and I I can it's it's
also different as because we don't we
also don't want people we also don't
want Christians to not go into politics
um we can't go that way so that like
many other things is is just I me you
talked about you talked about the Chaos
and Order line there are many such lines
in life and that business with politics
is one of them and but but again I think
you have to the best guide to this is
Jesus because if you read the
gospels
understanding the the political culture
war that Jesus was in meshed
in and then you look at you look at how
he tried to walk through that mindfield
I think that I Think Jesus is showing us
how to do it
yeah but you also have to remember that
if you really do it like
Jesus they may very well kill you
because that is
exactly how the story goes did you watch
The Chosen no I have a real hard time
watching onscreen portrayals of Jesus
okay me too I watched it on accident let
me tell you that I after my dad died I
couldn't sleep and and I'd heard people
talking about it I thought it was some
kind of a weird um dystopian show so
usually I listen to podcast to fall
asleep but my brain was so loud I could
hear my brain over it so I thought I
need something visual just turned it on
and like in the opening scene I was like
is this about Jesus now at first my
thought was like I do not want to see a
show about Jesus but I couldn't stop
watching it it's one of the best You'
probably heard this but yeah people love
it of Jesus what I was going to say is
that something that they did did so well
was really give you that sense of what
was going on politically and all these
different things like on paper make only
so much sense but you see them playing
out with the centurions and what that
would have looked like and also like in
his within his disciples that you had
like a zealot and a tax collector and
you know they had to be having like
raging
conversations they don't mention any of
that right and that always fascinates me
um yeah and I I mean I think
I think you're right and I think too
that you know I was talking to this
young Ukrainian guy the other day that
was at that was at my food trailer and
he was talking about when people start
trying to get involved in a war stuff he
said by the time you're at War he said
that train is so freighted and it's been
coming from down here it's barreling
it's got so much momentum you're G to
step in front of a train and you're
gonna get hit by it and also I wondered
is that where the word fraught comes
from is it frighted oh I don't know
could be I all of a sudden that I was
like Fred fraught they sound right they
sound like they should be the same yeah
they sound like yeah yeah because it's
true these situations are so freighted
they they're carrying such a load that
it doesn't even make sense to try to
stand stand in front of it and the scary
thing about the Ukraine situation
is it wasn't that long ago although you
know the the the situation within the
the Soviet Union and those countries I
mean the world is just so complex and we
the truth is to look in it from the
outside we know so little about it that
that I think should sort of help us also
have a bit of humility about these
conflicts around the world that we know
to a degree the resolution around our
own conflicts with people who are very
much like us you know you know even in a
marriage I mean talk about a I'm like I
can't even fix my problems with my
husband how I'm going to go fix the
world yeah yeah yeah so a little bit of
humility is in order um and also one of
the things that I you know even with my
own denomination and the and the
struggles there I I don't need to I mean
there are times when I have to say vote
on something at a at a senate or a
classes okay well then I've got to vote
and I guess for national elections I got
to vote to but you know we can hold our
things a little bit lightly and we can
listen to each other when someone comes
and says yeah but have you thought about
this and usually the answer is no I
haven't and that's a good point so I'll
throw that into the hopper too and it'll
all be in that big soup and then someone
comes on Twitter and it's like choose
now it's like well I feel
like also like the more I understand
about stuff the more I realize how very
little control I have over absolutely
anything that even if we were all to
like vote in One Direction like yeah
there are all these like power plays
happening like I had sent you a video
and I won't like go over it but it was
that was another one of those examples
of there could be like one little piece
of a puzzle that someone hands you and
suddenly you're like I've got to redo
this whole thing you know um and so then
it comes back to Jordan Peterson and the
12 12 rules for life I mean yeah getting
your own room in order and that's hard
enough but if enough people are learning
to do the hard the hard work of that and
learning how to practice the way back to
the J Mar comr stuff I don't know that's
where I'm trying to just focus my yeah
yeah yeah because that's that's actually
it's it's in your life with your husband
your children your church your
co-workers your customers there there's
there's where the there's where the
rubber hits the road Y and can you I
I've I haven't done the video yet
because it's been so so many other
things I've wanted to make videos about
because I'm taking of your time no no no
you got to you got to balance you got to
do you got to do all these you got to
keep all these stuff balanced but um the
introdu the the first chapter of chk
chesterton's biography of St
Francis um where was I going with that
it's he his comment about St Francis was
basically you know he didn't dovi makes
the same comment
you know dovi points out that people
love
Humanity but hate people that's the
woman the woman who's confessing to the
priest yeah and she's saying like she's
afraid though that she'll basically
resent them for not being appreciative
enough of her and then that she was
actually trying to ingratiate herself to
the priest by even confessing that and
there's like five different layers right
there and I yeah I know exactly what
you're talking
and and and and that first of all it you
have
to loving the people around have to take
priority especially if you say you're a
humanist and and then and then figuring
out if you can do both and to the degree
that you can do
both that's that's really where it's at
and that's that's again where Jesus is
so powerful because he both manages
to love the people around him and also
all of
us at the same
time so and I know I just got some
people with some of the reformed
Doctrine just I set off alarm Bells
because I've got those people in my head
too so we're not going to go any of
those places but um and I know Luke
Thompson is out there cheering somewhere
and he will be so um anyway he he's
interesting oh Luke is very interesting
he knows all like the doctrinal stuff
and it's like I've never paid attention
to a whole lot of that because I was
more interested in like getting my
together you know what I mean yeah oh
and that and that to me someone just put
out I just I just posted it on Twitter
was actually he goes by the the Discord
name Charlie Brown um um Stefan I met
him when I was in Germany last fall and
um really cool guy really got to spent a
little bit of time with him in Germany
really he just made a little documentary
kind of of of the corner and again the
reason the the cool thing about the
corner is not watching videos the cool
thing about the corner is being able to
make a few friends and being able to
know some people like Luke and Sam and
Grizz and Chad and you know that's
that's the cool thing about the corner
which again I did not I did not sit
there I was so smart that I could design
this no not at all just well you know I
I Envision like you know you talk about
the hallway which is a that's like
analogy that I've used for a while too
it's like you know I peaked into a room
and I saw this dude telling interesting
stories around a fire and then you know
couple and that's kind of like and then
I I'm warming Myself by that fire and I
have that imagery in my mind when I come
into the corner it's like it's a source
of honestly very real Joy I feel
comforted I feel like I feel like these
are my people even though I don't know
any of them you know what I mean good in
like gril country by the way I Saturday
morning I'll be like I'm like walking
around the store and I'll be like just
tearing up crying because of these poems
that they're eing or whatever yeah like
I don't know just lovely people lovely
people all right we're gonna land on the
plane I'm done who truck Emily thank you
thank you thank you thank you for
thanking for thank you for sharing
yourself um you know know because you
are a worship leader you already do this
to a great degree but um they don't let
you talk so I'm I'm glad we got a
chance know I talk a lot that's probably
it yeah and and you know those mega
church services they're on a clock you
get this song has to be three and a half
minutes no more and then
 yeah anyway all
right Emily take care seeing you in
person all right bye bye bye
