hi this is Paul I'm going to keep
picking at this question of Islam and
I've been really enjoying this channel
exploring the Quran and the Bible uh the
person who runs it I think he teaches at
Notre Dame and he had Tom Holland on and
this time he has I first caught a clip
of it and the clip engaged me and then
last night in Costco I watched the whole
thing I didn't watch the whole thing I
listened to the whole thing in Costco I
wasn't in Costco the whole time
but very interesting conversation and
I'm thinking I'm going to intersect this
with the first chapter of GK
chesterton's biography of St Francis
because what it has to do with is
historiography now some of
historiography might not be a word
that's familiar to a lot of you it's
it's basically historiography basically
deals with the question of
self-consciousness with history because
with a monarchical vision in sort of
this way that modernism attempts to see
the world and sort of imagines it sees
the world it leaves everything and just
tries to see the world as it is the
study of
historiography sort of pulls back the
cover and says different people in
different times keep seeing the world in
different ways and sort of you can
update it with questions of frames keep
seeing the world through different
frames now Fred Donner wrote a very
interesting book in
2010 with a with a
hypothesis that gets carried forward by
Tom Holland and others that the origins
this is very interesting to me how the
origins of Islam is sort of this this
this let's say it's
a widespread low resolution folk
religion now that's very interesting to
me as a pastor because because when I
meet people that's usually where many
people are or at least how they present
themselves until if you start asking
questions maybe you go a little bit
deeper but the vast majority of people
in common population in California or
other places that have worked in North
America or even other places in other
countries their their religion is about
an inch deep and you start asking a few
questions and they very quickly get out
of their depth I've metion men in other
videos that I used to sometimes play
this game with Jehovah's Witnesses where
they would come to my door and um if I
had time it was usually on a Saturday if
I had time and if it wasn't disrupting
too much I would sit down with them and
you know they're there to talk to me
well I knew the shtick they were going
to prepare so then I start asking
questions and they get all excited
because oh we can he's he's asking
questions he must really be interested
in becoming a Jehovah's Witness but of
course because I know a little bit about
their religion I sort of know where to
ask
questions and what I want to see is how
much do you really know about
christology or the Trinity or what what
what really do you believe and in many
cases once they realized they were sort
of out of their depths and once they
realized that I probably wasn't a good
Prospect to join their Church they
usually sort of backed out and said
we'll send somebody by who knows more I
said that's okay you don't have to I you
know I I it was fine I was gracious you
can go ahead down the block but it's
just an interesting thing that you
knocked on my door you wanted this
conversation and now I'm willing to have
it but are you willing to have this
conversation and so what you find in a
population is sort of a low resolution
fairly
shallow amount of religious knowledge
and that's where sort of the origins of
Islam get very interesting because of
the shape of the Quran in many respects
in terms of its perspectives on
Christians and Jews and you know a lot
of the a lot of the questions about at
least the origins of Islam not
necessarily what Islam would be over
time but its Origins get into well where
exactly did it come from of course you
can read Tom Hollands in the shadow of
the
sword so Fred Donner sort of walks us
through
how he got into this so the first 17
minutes is the introduction and then
there's a nice sort of a rando's bio in
terms of Donner kind of goes through how
he was first interested in chemistry and
then got interested in history and
enjoyed learning a language when he was
um in high school and then you know
because Latin was kind of fun and he
kind of liked that French was kind of
fun so we wanted to do something where
he'd have to learn another language and
of course Arabic oh might as well learn
Arabic and it's interesting the way one
life sort of just whines and so let's
let's pick up the conversation
there uh but you know what what what led
to this why why did you begin the
research that eventually culminated in
Muhammad and the
Believers well you know the book is you
know I realized after I finish it it's
kind of a distillation of everything I'd
worked on in my career for the preceding
35 or 40 years uh because it all kind of
contributes in different ways and it
would be easy to sort of get the
mistaken impression that somehow my
career was very carefully planned I
moved from A to B to C to D and then
they were all summed up in this book but
it was a very halfhazard process and
lurching from one thing to another they
had no connection and I began to see the
connections later on um and also
actually the background of this book and
the concept of Islamic Origins one of
the books that I read again when I was
an undergraduate which I was very
impressed by was a book I think his name
was the author name was Van Meek maybe
theophilos Vanek um and he wrote a book
called Hebrew Origins it was about the
early Hebrews and the history of the
Hebrew Bible and so on and I was really
I thought that was a really interesting
book and so as I got into early Islamic
history I sort of had this idea in the
back I should write a book on Islamic
Origins it was kind of a counterpart to
that book well I don't think my book has
much to do in common with that book
probably which I haven't looked at in 50
years but uh nonetheless that's uh you
know I I had for a long time thought
about working on this early period I
worked on The Conquest obviously is a
separate thing and doing the working on
The Conquest book um I was then
immediately thrust into the uh the
problems with the literary sources my
book came out just after Hagar ISM
appeared Patricia Crona and Michael
Cook's epic making book Hager your book
on The Conquest yes it came out after
Hagar Hagar ISM was I think 77 and my
book and so I had just submitted my
completed manuscript to the Princeton
University press and Hagar ISM appears
which seemed to sort of invalidate
everything I had said because I was
using the traditional sources in a way
that they said we can't use them so so
this now again I am by no means an
expert on this because I am just sort of
getting my feet wet in it but ptia
croner at the very end of the video they
talk about her Tom Holland um talks
about her on this channel too she was
the one who sort of broke open Islamic
Studies because up until then everybody
just sort of treated it with kid gloves
and this is you know this is part of the
dynamic
of sort of what's going on in our
culture with respect to privileged
groups privileged groups have the uh
distinct uh underprivileged status of
nobody speaking the truth to them
because their their supposed or imagined
privilege means that everybody has to
sort of walk on eggshells or pull their
punches or be nicey nicey to their face
even while other ideas rumble on the
surface under the surface so so he had
written this book and he had just used
all of the Islamic sources the way
everyone else had done and sort of the
way people had done with the Bible let's
say up until the early modern period
when this whole idea of critical study
uh No Holds Barred skepticism all of
that stuff starts going at it and so he
reads this book probably I I don't know
the book probably a book that's sort of
skeptical historiography with respect to
the origins of Hebrew scripture now
again the the Old and New Testament have
been subject to this right from the
start in the enlightenment period in
other words the Old and New Testament
have been just a Battleground and have
been tested and gone over and fought
over and on and on and on and on and on
but but the Quran
oh well let's not let's not touch any of
that because you know it's it's sort of
like you have an aunt over there who's
she's a little sensitive about you know
she's a little sensitive about how she
looks and she walks out of the house and
isn't looking particularly well but the
rest of the family just you know just
don't don't say anything to Aunt Sadie
you know because you know how she is and
then she just kind of goes out into
public looking like that everybody else
looks
like it's you know letting her
suffer is worse than having to deal with
her if we say do you really want to go
out in that so um so he writes this book
uses all the traditional sources and at
that point this other book sort of
upends Islam study and now suddenly his
work well he's going to have to go back
go back to the
beginning a fire under me to start
examining the the historiography of
these sources of Turi and all these
other Chronicles which I had used um and
uh what I blindly thought would be a a a
question of a couple of years or maybe a
year or so and writing a an article on
it uh ended up taking about 20 years
before I got to narratives of Islamic
Origins um and
that the reason it took so long I
explained actually in the preface to the
book The reason it took so long was
besides the fact that I'm lazy maybe but
was that I was starting off with an
assumption that wasn't
true that everybody else was making so I
adopted this assumption and I I actually
wrote a first chapter to what was going
to be my book on hysterography
um that was based on that assumption and
but the fact was that even though
rationally I didn't realized that this
idea was
wrong I somehow emotionally sensed that
it was wrong and that created a block I
could not proceed with the word now one
of the videos I'm watching right now
which is absolutely outstanding but I'm
not done with is Drew Johnson and Sam
tedan this is an out standing video this
is this is really good and and Drew's
work has sort of been on the outskirts
of the corner for a while I dipped into
it fairly early on but I you know
there's only so much bandwidth and Paul
and Lightner did a conversation with him
about Evolution and now Sam is done with
Randomness and
it's it's it's a great video and and
early on they were talking about
um
now if you go way back towards the
beginning of my video journey I did a
few videos on Randomness because I
always had this intuition that we
weren't really talking about let's say
pure true Randomness because we can't
see that that far through anything and
so actually a lot of this Randomness is
approximation so I'm super excited about
these two taking up this topic but Sam
here makes a comment about evolution in
the Christian Community to come to be as
organisms is random therefore things are
meaningless and it's it's a little bit
like well well why right that that seems
like a jump um and that a lot of a lot
of I felt like the argument looking back
like as a teenager I didn't quite pick
up on this right but I think that a lot
of the creation Evolution debate really
was at actually a theological level
right um and a metast story level like
is life purposeful right uh does
morality have some higher source um
should I understand humans as having
some guiding purpose that I should
Orient myself to or is this whole show
meaningless is it arbitrary and and sort
of nihilistic and those sorts of things
but we are using we are arguing about
those ideas by arguing about genes and
Adam and Eve and how penguins got
Antarctica and stuff like that but
really the argument that we were having
was at this upper layer and when people
who might not be very scientifically
educated at all they can still smell
some of the metaphysical baggage in an
idea and know that that doesn't fit with
their metaphysical ideas even if they're
not very highly trained or haven't
thought about these things in a deep
level humans have sort of a gut
intuition on those sorts of things and I
think that's really what was going on
and like you said these debates Aren't
Dead but they were at a much higher
pitch and much more Central in the
culture War about 20 years ago than they
are now and and yeah I'm glad you said
Phil or metaphysical baggage because now
I know I can say such things um but yes
the metaphysical baggage in these
conversations excuse me um and I think
what's important for me now this was not
in the book that we're talking about
right now but I have another book I did
with Cambridge University press uh
called biblical philosophy where I do
actually
argue from the biblical
literature that the biblical authors
were very tuned into the issue of
Randomness and chance and they actually
frame what we call miracles of course
they don't have a word for miracle in
the biblical languages uh but they call
them signs and wonders but they frame
them in such a way against a null
hypothesis of chance um all right so I
am totally interested in that video but
that's not the video we're dealing with
right now but I just wanted to bring in
Sam's Point that we do have these
intuitions and they're not they're not
they're not Surefire they're not
infallible but they're not always wrong
either and another video I want to make
is at the end of my conversation with
John Veri we started we started talking
a little bit about um the spirit of
finesse and he said that's a that's a
that's an optimal grip thing and i' I'd
say yes it is but this is exactly what
we're always
doing with relevance realization and
Optical grip waves of waves of obsession
just yesterday released just an
outstanding video on um I've got so many
videos to put out right now I'm just
trying not to overwhelm the
channel but he's he's he's been doing
some really good work and some more will
be coming out in that okay back to
this my system wouldn't let me proceed
with the work the Assumption was that
there was you know there was um some
kind of sense of
History uh in ancient Arabia and in the
early Muslim Community that they already
had a notion of history that they wanted
to do a write a history and so I okay
what he said right there is so important
because basically what he said which is
what we all
do is we sort of back
project our world onto the world we're
looking back on and that that in some
ways is what we're talking about and
we're talking about
historiography
and as he starts to first of all you
know the study of Islam comes into the
modern period so it's like all of these
assumptions that you have all of this
Dogma for these Scholars they sort of
dare to say Islam meet the enlightenment
you're GNA have fun just talk to the
Christians and the Jews see how that's
gone for them
so here comes the enlightenment Islam
buckle up because it's going to get
bumpy and um and then he begins to
realize that wait a minute what's going
on in terms of what they're writing and
what they're
doing is not what we're doing when we
say history we have the enlightenment
has come through and completely rewired
what we understand history to be and all
of these rules of the Enlightenment are
right there now on one
hand we're we're sort of past Peak
Enlightenment in many places in the west
but these waves sort of run through the
world unevenly and
Islam hey baby liment is coming for you
and um I I would much rather have
gospels that are very very close to the
source
than the books that you guys have in
terms terms of what the enlightenment is
going to do to your origin story I mean
there's just a few people that have
dabbled in this so far and um wait wait
until it goes through if you think if
you think Christians have been who have
been wrestling with these issues for
centuries now
um and and and again you know we have we
have Jesus and Paul writing to Corinth
very soon after I mean our histori
geography compared to almost anything
else including so much of the history
that you have in the Roman Empire and so
on and so forth anybody who's in looking
at the New Testament you're you're like
in terms of the ancient world you got it
really good
Islam No this is our tradition oh and
then someone might say well look at
isn't tradition coming back isn't
tradition coming back
strong yeah you know there's a re reason
Jordan Peterson sort of gave Comfort to
Islam because some of the same things
that are sort of pushing the
enlightenment back against Christianity
well you can use them to push back
against Islam but all of that work has
been done with Christianity and it's
just not going to get
ignored because you know again as these
waves go through all of those tools that
the enlightenment gave us they're still
there and they're going to be used
and so it's it's a it's a big deal
so I I it'd be nice to come back to this
video because this whole thesis of the
Believers I find it so interesting in
terms of that question of folk religion
and low resolution religion and shallow
religion and civilizational religion
that tends to be very shallow you think
about American Christianity even in the
mid 20th century where in some way
you know Christian nationalism was so
ubiquitous nobody even thought about
it and you've got you know all these
Hollywood are doing all these Bible
movies like you know the Ten
Commandments and benur and the robe and
all that whole style of movie well
American religiosity especially sort of
in the the
the the cult the civilizational
Christianity of the United States and
the in the middle of the 20th century
you know it was super thin and you know
Protestant Catholic Jew let's not talk
too much about the Divinity of Christ or
the uh presence of Christ in the
Eucharist or or historiography in terms
of Moses y Yad y don't don't don't look
at any of these things too much because
then we're going to have a fight so
let's just keep it all right here and
play nicey nicey apparently Shia and
sunnis and other groups within
Islam have really struggled with nicey
nicey
so but again all of this is to set
up what I think was one of
the most
incredible works of
historiography that I've read which is
the first chapter of GK chesterton's
biography of St Francis now part of
what's interesting about the audio book
of St Francis of aisi is that it's it's
read by Simon Vance who reads a lot of
CS Lewis materials and I just find this
playing in my brain in a funny way
because in my mind I'm trying to hear GK
Chesterton but I keep hearing CS Lewis
because Simon Vance is reading it but
Chesterton starts off right away with
historiography read by Simon
Vance CH let me do something a
second the problem of St
Francis a sketch of St Francis of aisi
in a little too fast English may be
written in one of three ways between
these the writer must make his selection
and the Third Way which is adopted here
is in some respects the most difficult
of all at least it would be the most
difficult if the other two were not
impossible now now what Chesterton does
right off the bat is
say when we're going to try when we're
going to try to talk about St Francis we
have a problem
and you'll notice again that
there's chesterton's going to take these
problems on head on it's not going to be
walking on eggshells or worrying about a
a Sadie over there we're going to have
to talk about these problems because
actually these problems go far
beyond just trying to get a sense of a
13th century
Saint first he may deal with this great
and most amazing man as a figure in
secular history and a model of social
virtues okay so secular history one of
the things that Pou often makes mention
of sort of in an inverse way is he
says P tries to say well religion isn't
fundamentally about morality now now
certainly religions deal with morality
but part of Jonathan pau's project is to
say that religion is about the structure
of the world that's and that's sort of
one of the big changes that Pou sort of
brings to the conversation he's saying
you know I'm not going to focus on
morality so much I'm going to focus on
structure and because the patterns are
the
structures and so one of the interesting
things about St Francis is that St
Francis is beloved and he's beloved by
people beyond the church based on this
their selective understanding of who FR
St Francis was he seems um Pagan or
environmental or nice or enlightened as
opposed to let's say you you know bad
people and things like the Crusade he
may describe this Divine demagogue as
being as he probably was the world's one
quite sincere
Democrat now notice Chesterton is
already playing with us because he says
they may describe this Divine
demagogue because Chesterton knows full
well that if your image of St Francis is
just sort of this nicey nice guy who
talks to animals and tries to make peace
with the sarason and all those little
tidbits the the low resolution Francis
that you might
know oh you have absolutely no idea of
the rigor and
the difficulties he may say what means
very little that St Francis was in
advance of his age he may say what is
quite true that St Francis anticipated
all that is most liberal and sympathetic
in the modern mood the love of nature
the Love of Animals the sense of social
compassion the sense of the spiritual
dangers of prosperity and even of
property all those things that nobody
understood before Wordsworth were
familiar to St Francis all those things
that were now again he notes wordworth
Wordsworth because of of course
Romanticism
so people in the modern era that are
sort of postchristian and and full of
Romanticism look back and say ah finally
a Christian I can appreciate first
discovered by tolto could have been
taken for granted by St Francis he could
be presented not only as a human but a
humanitarian hero indeed as the first
hero of humanism he has been described
as a sort of Morning Star of the
Renaissance and in comparison with all
these things his aesthetical theology
can be ignored or dismissed as a
contemporary accident okay so here one
of the things you bump into in terms of
historiography is the frame problem so
we're going to frame we're going to
frame Francis as sort of a modern and so
then well he's just just he's just
shining brightly as a modern you know no
religion necessary this is this is sort
of Rob Riner uh golden Rish and St
Francis yeah I've got problems with
Dread Christian nationalism but St
Francis yeah I hardly see any religion
in him oh really which was fortunately
not a fatal accident his religion can be
regarded as a Superstition but an
inevitable Superstition from which not
even genius could wholly free itself in
the consideration of which it would be
unjust to condemn St Francis for his
self-denial or unduly chide him for his
Chastity it is quite true that even from
so detached a standpoint his stature
would still appear heroic there would
still be a great deal to be said about
the man who tried to end the Crusades by
talking to the sarens or who interceded
with the emperor for the birds the
writer might describe in a purely
historical Spirit the whole of The
Franciscan inspiration that was felt in
the pain pting of jotto in the Poetry of
Dante in the miracle plays that made
possible the modern drama and in so many
things that are already appreciated by
the modern culture he may try to do it
as others have done almost without
raising any religious question at all in
short he may try to tell the story of a
saint without God which is like being
told to write the life of nanson and
forbidden to mention the North Pole now
part of the issue of reading Chesterton
and actually a fair amount of Lewis's
references that everybody or most
everybody reading him in his day would
talk about that we say told the life of
nanson who's
nanson wow see this is what's fun about
actually instead of just reading it
saying I don't know who the heck this
nanson is let's look him up nanson is in
1890 can't even say his first
name uh Norwegian 18 61 to 1930 was a
Norwegian polymath and Nobel Prize
laurate he gained prominence at various
points in his life as Explorer scientist
Diplomat humanitarian and co-founder of
the Fatherland League boy that would
naming branding of the Fatherland League
that that that's that's not going to
make uh that's not going to make the
moderns feel too good he led the team
that made the first crossing of the
Greenland interior in 1888 traversing
the island on Country Skis he won
International Fame after reaching a
record northern latitude of 86° 14 um 14
out in his Fram expedition of 1893 to
1896 although he retired from exploring
after his return to Norway his
techniques for Polar travel and his
Innovations in the in the equipment and
clothing influenced the generation of
subsequent Arctic and Antarctic
expositions super interes interesting
dude wow really cool see
that he could Chesterton could just drop
his name and just assume everybody would
know it and
today not even
remembered yeah yeah whoa Little Man the
wind blows and the flowers wither and
its place remembers it no
more second he may go to the opposite
extreme decide as it were to be
defiantly devotional he may make the
theological enthusiasm as thoroughly the
theme as it was the theme of the first
franciscans he may treat religion as the
real thing that it was to the real
Francis of AI he can find an austere Joy
so to speak in parading the paradoxes of
asceticism and all the topsid turum of
humility he can stamp the whole history
with the Stigmata record fasts like
fights against a dragon till in the
vague modern mind St Francis is a darker
figure and Dominic so again Chesterton
takes the frame first says he's a modern
humanitarian oh no he's
religious Chesterton just inverts it
right there remember Chester is saying
you can't do this in short he can
produce what many in our world will
regard as a sort of photographic
negative the reversal of all lights and
shades what the foolish will find as
impenetrable as dark Ness and even many
of the wise will fight almost as
invisible as if it were written in
silver upon white such a study of St
Francis would be unintelligible to
anyone who does not share his religion
perhaps only partly okay now and this is
where the connection with Islam gets
interesting because you have inside
outside raised in
Islam this is this is what you know you
receive the tradition this is this is
the air you breathe this is the water
you swim in this is all of this this is
your civilizational religion me you know
people oh you're going to become Muslim
I just and I always remember that
because when people suggest I'm going to
become Muslim or or some of these other
things it's like I really don't think so
now of course I when I when I'm talking
to other people about Christianity and
they such things I just think ah you
don't know but of course I'm on the
inside I'm on the inside and so what
we're seeing here is sort
of what frame are you looking at Francis
through I'm looking at him from the
inside well is Francis really in the
same inside as you are well if you're
Roman Catholic or Christian or something
like this well to a degree yes but pay
attention to the insides and outsides of
these things intelligible to anyone who
does not share his vocation according to
degrees of judgment it will be regarded
as something too bad or too good for the
world the only difficulty about doing
the thing in this way is that it cannot
be done it would really require a saint
to write about the life of a saint in
the present case the objections to such
a course are insuperable so in other
words Chesterton says yeah you might
think you're on the inside of the same
thing Francis is on the inside of and
beginning of chapter 2 he's going to
start leading us into which is again
another just superb chapter I this book
is just I've just found this book to be
breath
um you know it was it was amazing that
Lewis when he would talk about
apologetics would often say well it's
already been done by Chesterton this is
just really quite quite dramatic but but
Chesterton will say basically well you
know yeah you think do you think because
you go to Catholic church every week
you're on the same insides as Francis
that's why he says it would require a
saint to write about the life of a saint
but here we are so now we have to get to
the third what Chesterton says is
basically the only way we can approach
this third he may try to do what I have
tried to do here and as I have already
suggested the course has peculiar
problems of its own the writer may put
himself in the position of the ordinary
modern Outsider and Inquirer and indeed
the present writer is still largely and
was once entirely in that position okay
now the modern Outsider and Inquirer and
and what brilliant about this is
Chesterton at basically Peak modernity
which is the end of the 19th early 20th
century modernity first starts to crack
in the first world war and then the
second world war comes along and of
course these things are waves and um in
a sense to see to point to modernity is
like pointing at a mountain and trying
to differentiate it from all of the
other mountains in the range where does
one mountain end and the other begin
well we just tend to look at the
Peaks but but chesterton's well aware
enough of his own culture that he can
say now on the one hand we just sort of
look at it from the outside and
modernity imagines that we can just sort
of see things as they are and
chesterton's way too smart for that no
no no no no we we have our own lenses
here you can't just stick those cameras
on on top of that computer and think it
sees Q
cognitive
science he may start from the standpoint
of a man who already admires St Francis
but only for those things which such a
man finds admirable in other words you
may assume that the reader is at least
as enlightened as Rena or Matthew Arnold
but now Matthew Arnold of course gives
us that quote about the the tide the
receding tide that Justin brle begins
his book
with but I suspect I'm not going to dig
right now I suspect that ran and Arnold
both attempted
biographies of Francis in the light of
that Enlightenment he may try to
illuminate what Rena and Matthew Arnold
left dark he may try to use what is
understood to explain what is not
understood he may try to say to the
Modern English reader here is an
historical character which is admittedly
attractive to many of us already by its
gity its romantic imagination its
spiritual courtesy and camaraderie but
which also contains elements evidently
equ sincere and emphatic which seemed to
you quite remote and repulsive but after
all this man was a man and not a half
dozen men what seems inconsistency to
you did not seem inconsistency to him
let us see whether we can understand
with the help of the existing
understanding these other things that
now seem to be doubly dark by their
intrinsic Gloom and their ironic
contrast on Twitter I came across a post
of someone who was horrified at Netflix
that Netflix in the first 10 minutes it
was a it was a YouTube it was a Twitter
account that had something against
wokeness and said Netflix is already
making he's already making Alexander the
Great gay and it's like I guess he's
never he hasn't he hasn't listened to
the rest of his history he hasn't
listened to Tom Holland he doesn't
understand that you know it might be
that Netflix is like oh Alexander was
non-binary they are all
non-binary or at least a lot of them at
least those who
could what do you mean well at least the
men because they had the
choice sex in the sex in the ancient
world sex in the classical world this
these categories these identities are
very contemporary
things and then suddenly and then I also
noticed a thing that Elon Musk had
posted about uh basically what's been
happening in terms of child sex
education in American public schools and
it's
like ah yeah ah yeah are we all learning
frames yet are we all learning
yet I do not mean of course that I can
really reach a psychological
completeness in this crude and Curt
outline but I mean that this is the only
controversial condition that I shall
here assume that I am dealing with a
sympathetic Outsider I shall not assume
any more or any less agree ment than
this a materialist may not care whether
the inconsistences are reconciled or not
a Catholic may not see any
inconsistences to reconcile those are
his first two the materialist and the
Catholic the Catholic just oh he's ours
you know we're gonna we're just going to
take the whole thing because he's one of
us and the materialist well we're just G
to I don't have a
frame how lovely how lovely but I am
here addressing the ordinary Common Man
sympathetic but skeptical and I can only
rather hazily hope that by approaching
the great Saints story through what is
evidently picturesque and popular about
it I may at least leave the reader
understanding a little more than he did
before of the consistency of a complete
character that by approaching it in this
way we may at least get a glimmering of
why the poet who praised his Lord the
son often hid himself in a dark Cavern
or why the saint who was so gentle with
his brother the wolf was so harsh to his
brother the ass as he nicknamed his own
body and right away we can get a sense
from
Chesterton oh
chesterton's not going to try
to understand
by he's going to he's going to open the
aperture as wide as it can he'll still
have a frame he says right off the bat
isn't something he's really going to get
around but he's going to take his best
shot at it of why the trador who said
that love set his heart on fire
separated him himself from women of why
the singer who rejoiced in the strength
and gity of the fire deliberately rolled
himself in the snow of why the very song
which cries with all the passion of a
pagan praised be God for our sister
mother earth which brings forth varied
fruits and grass and glowing flowers
ends almost with the words praised be
God for our sister the death of the body
Rena and Matthew Arnold failed utterly
at this test they were content to follow
Francis with their praises until they
were stopped by their prejudices the
stubborn prejudices of the skeptic the
moment Francis began to do something
they did not understand so right there
the stubborn prejudices of the skeptic
so what no wait a minute skepticism is
supposed to be this solvent that
dissolves all of our
prejudices and of course you can drop
John Veri right in that moment and say
no actually the
prejudices and the insights are part of
the same package you don't get one
without the other and
so this is going to be hard or did not
like they did not try to understand
still less to like it they simply turned
their backs on the whole business and
walked no more with him no man will get
any further along a path of historical
inquiry in that fashion these Skeptics
are really driven to drop the whole
subject in despair to leave the most
simple and sincere of all historical
characters as a mass of contradiction to
be praised on the principle of the
Spirit its egg Arnold refers to the
asceticism of alno almost hedly as if it
were an unlucky but undeniable blot on
the beauty of the story or rather as if
it were a pitiable breakdown and BOS at
the end of story now this is simply to
be Stone blind to the whole point of any
story to represent Mount Alverno as the
mere collapse of Francis is exactly like
representing Mount Calvary as the mere
collapse of Christ those mountains are
mountains whatever else they are and it
is nonsense to say like the red queen
that they are comparative Hollows or
negative holes in the ground they were
quite manifestly meant to be
culminations and landmarks to treat the
stigmat as a sort of Scandal to be
touched on tenderly but with pain is
exactly like treating the original Five
Wounds of Jesus Christ as five blots on
his character you may dislike the idea
of aestheticism you may dislike equally
the idea of martyrdom for that matter
you may have an honest and natural
dislike of the whole conception of
sacrifice symbolized by the cross but if
it is an intelligent dislike you will
retain the capacity for seeing the point
of the story the story of a martyr or
even the story of a monk you will not be
able rationally to read the gospel and
regard the crucifixion as an
afterthought or an anticlimax or an
accident in the Life of Christ it is
obviously the point of the story like
the point of a sword the sword that
pierced the heart of the mother of God
so what Chesterton does is similar to
what Lewis does in his book Miracles he
says well he sort of take on so
lingering behind us is are the sort of
the chattering um anxieties of the
postmodern oh even even even just
pointing out these things that must be
random no because if everything is just
random remember you can go back and
listen to Drew Johnson and and Sam talk
about Randomness and a little bit of
skepticism that we can apply to the the
imaginably random
purposelessness
there are patterns and they fit
together
and you might say well the these gospel
writers completely missed the point
because you know all of the four gospels
either hit something or miss something
but they all have the crucifixion and
they all have it
prominently well why would the
crucifixion be
prominent
well let's give tradition it's due
but tradition isn't
alone and you will not be able
rationally to read the story of a man
presented as a mirror of Christ without
understanding his Final Phase as a man
of Sorrows and at least artistically
appreciating the appropriateness of his
receiving in a cloud of mystery and
isolation inflicted by no human hand the
unhealed Everlasting wounds that Heal
the
World the Practical reconciliation of
the gayet and austerity I must leave the
story itself to suggest but since I have
mentioned Matthew Arnold and RAR as the
rationalistic admirers of St Francis I
will here give a hint of what it seems
to me most advisible for such readers to
keep in mind these distinguished writers
found things like the Stigmata a
stumbling block because to them a
religion was a philosophy it was an
impersonal thing and it is only the most
personal passion that provides here an
approximate Earthly
parallel now this is if you want to get
a sense for how things are changing
again
notice where the conversation is going
with respect to philosophers not
necessarily philosophy because in the
modern period and notice
that when you study philosophy well
you've got the Ancients you've got the
Greeks and then you know after the
Greeks well then they're all Christians
they're almost theologians all the way
through and so we pay no attention to
them and suddenly with decart okay we
have once again the beginning of of
modern philosophy because philosophy is
just sort of part of this well we're
just going to see the world as it is and
um okay and I'm not about to tell you
that philosophy doesn't
have its place or its work or its
importance in fact that that video with
with uh with Sam and Drew um I mean part
of part of the point that Drew makes is
that this is and part of the point that
that John Veri makes is that well
actually there's a lot of people who
know very little philosophy at all and
what what happened he talked about
getting a PhD well you supposed to be
basically a philosopher and and what's
happened to phds is that the last thing
that many of them know depending on the
discipline is any philosophy at
all a man will not roll in the snow for
a stream of tendency by which all things
fulfill the law of their being he will
not go without food in the name of
something not ourselves that makes for
righteousness he will do things like
this or pretty much like this under
quite a different impulse he will do
these things when he is in love the
first
okay a little bit more from Charlie's
great little these these videos that
Charlie and Chris are putting out are
really helpful for me because what
they've done is sort of taking these
Salient moments over the last six years
and brought them up and just put them
out
there and at the end of the day it turns
out to be
hope love in the comedy can be seen as
the animating force behind everything
that Dante talks about and not only the
animating force in the story but really
presented as something like the animated
animating force of everything that is
the manner in which the world exists and
for us as modern people that is a very
strange thing to think to think that the
world exists through love it's kind of
like the question of where is the king
om it's between us it's in the love well
where is the love well where is the love
between that
couple well it's in their children it's
in their
home it's in how their story has
impacted other
[Music]
people what chesterson basically says is
you cannot understand
Francis as someone who set out to be a
saint I'm going to be a saint and this
is what Saints do
no he's a lover and it's his love that
animates him and Francis isn't alone
love is what as Pou just said you know
brings the world together fact der
realiz about St Francis is involved with
the first fact with which his story
starts that when he said from the first
that he was a trador and said later that
he was a Troubador of a newer and nobler
romance he was not using a mere metaphor
but understood himself much better than
the scholars understand him he was to
the last agonies of aestheticism a
Troubador he was a lover he was a lover
of God and he was really and truly a
lover of men possibly a much rarer
mystical vocation a lover of men is very
nearly the opposite of a philanthropist
indeed the pedantry of the Greek word
carries something like a satire on
itself a philanthropist may be said to
love anthropoids but as St Francis did
not love Humanity but men so he did not
love Christianity but Christ say If you
think so that he was a lunatic loving an
imaginary person but an imaginary person
not an imaginary idea and for the modern
reader the clue to the asceticism and
all the rest can be found in the stories
of lovers when they seem to be rather
like lunatics so in other
words
philosophia well that's lovers of
wisdom and what's so amazing is that so
much philosophy has gotten so far away
from wisdom because it's
actually you cannot love
wisdom without loving human life and how
to
live Francis loved
people loved
God and that's what energized him and so
Chesterton rightly
says you don't understand Francis if you
don't understand him as a
lover tell it is the tale of one of the
troubadors and the wild things he would
do for his lady and the whole of of the
modern puzzle disappears in such a
romance there would be no contradiction
between the poet Gathering flowers in
the Sun and enduring a freezing vigil in
the snow between his praising all
Earthly and bodily Beauty and then
refusing to eat and between his
glorifying gold and purple and
perversely going in rags between his
showing pathetically a hunger for a
happy life and a thirst for a heroic
death all these riddles would be easily
resolved in the Simplicity of any Noble
love only this was so Noble a love that
nine out of 10 men have hardly even
heard of it we shall see later that this
parallel of the Earthly lover has a very
practical relation to the problems of
his life as to his relations with his
father and his friends and their
families the modern reader will almost
always find that if he could only find
this kind of love as a reality he could
feel this kind of extravagance as a
romance but I only note it here as a
preliminary point because though it is
very far from being the final truth in
the matter it is the best approach to it
the reader cannot even begin to see the
sense of a story that may well seem to
him a very wild one until he understands
that to this great Mystic his religion
was not a thing like a theory but a
thing like a love affair and the only
purpose of this prepatory chapter is to
explain the limits of the present book
which is only addressed to that part of
the modern world which finds in St
Francis a certain modern difficulty
which can admire him yet hardly accept
him or which can appreciate the saint
almost without the sanctity and my only
claim even to attempt such a task is
that I myself have for so long been in
various stages of such a condition many
thousand things that I now partly
comprehend I should have thought utterly
incomprehensible many things I now hold
sacred I should have scouted as utterly
superstitious many things that seemed to
me lucid and enlightened now they are
seen from the inside I should honestly
have called dark and barbarous seen from
the outside when long ago in those days
of Boyhood my fancy first caught fire
with the glory of Francis of aisi
I too have lived in arade but even in
arade I met one walking in a brown habit
who loved the woods better than Pan the
figure in the brown habit stands above
the Heth in the room where I write and
alone among many such images at no stage
of my pilgrimage as he ever seemed to me
a stranger there is something of a
Harmony between the Hearth and the
firelight and my own first pleasure in
his words about the brother fire for he
stands far enough back in my memory to
mingle with all those more domestic
dreams of the first days even the
Fantastic Shadows thrown by fire make a
sort of Shadow pantomime that belongs to
the nursery yet the Shadows were even
then the shadows of his favorite beast
and birds as he saw them grotesque but
haloed with the love of God his brother
wolf and brother sheep seemed then
almost like the bre Fox and Bre rabbit
of a more Christian Uncle Remis I have
come slowly to see many more marvelous
aspects of such a man but I have never
lost that one his figure stands on a
sort of bridge connecting my Boyhood
with my conversion to many other things
for the romance of his religion has
penetrated even the rationalism of that
vague Victorian time in so far as I have
had this experience I may be able to
lead others a little further along that
road but only a very little further
nobody knows better than I do now that
it is a road upon which Angels might
Fear To Tread but though I am certain of
failure I am not altogether overcome by
fear for he suffered fools
gladly that last line I'll leave it
there for Francis suffered fools
gladly so we do project
back and the solvent of the solvents of
modernity have their
purposes but it's it's finally love that
we live for and it's love that really
makes things move
forward all right leave a comment let me
know what you think
